Infosys Sample Test For Campus RecruitmentInfosys Sample Test #1Home

Back To Infosys Page

1. Father's age is three years more than three times the son's age.
    After three years, father's age will be ten years more than twice the son's 
age.
    What is the father's present age.
Ans: 33 years.                 (2 marks) 

2. Find the values of each of the alphabets.
     N O O N
     S O O N
+ M O O N
    ----------
      J U N E
Ans: 9326                         (2 marks)

3.  There are 20 poles with a constant distance between each pole
     A car takes 24 second to reach the 12th pole.
     How much will it take to reach the last pole.
Ans: 41.45 seconds              (2 marks)
        Let the distance between two poles = x
         Hence 11x:24::19x:?

4.  A car is travelling at a uniform speed.
     The driver sees a milestone showing a 2-digit number. 
     After travelling for an hour the driver sees another milestone with the 
same digits in reverse order.
     After another hour the driver sees another milestone containing the same 
two digits.
     What is the average speed of the driver.

Ans: 45 kmph                                (4 marks)

5. The minute and the hour hand of a watch meet every 65 minutes.
    How much does the watch lose or gain time and by how much?
Ans:  Gains; 5/11 minutes                   (4 marks)

6. Ram, Shyam and Gumnaam are friends. 
    Ram is a widower and lives alone and his sister takes care of him. 
    Shyam is a bachelor and his neice cooks his food and looks after his house.
    Gumnaam is married to Gita and lives in large house in the same town.
    Gita gives the idea that all of them could stay together in the house and 
share monthly expenses equally.
    During their first month of living together, each person contributed Rs.25.
    At the end of the month, it was found that Rs 92 was the expense so the 
remaining amount was distributed equally 
    among everyone. 
    The distribution was such that everyone recieved a whole number of Rupees.
    How much did each person recieve?
Ans. Rs 2                                       (4 marks)
        (Hint: Ram's sister, Shyam's neice and Gumnaam's wife are the same 
person)

7. Four persons A, B, C and D are playing cards. 
    Each person has one card, laid down on the table below him, which has two 
different colours on either side.
    The colours visible on the table are Red, Green, Red and Blue.
    They see the color on the reverse side and give the following comment.
A: Yellow or Green
B: Neither Blue nor Green
C: Blue or Yellow
D: Blue or Yellow
Given that out of the 4 people 2 always lie find out the colours on the cards 
each person.

8. 


Back to top
