Novell Netware sample paper for campus placement and recruitmentNovell 
      NetwareHome


Sample Test Papers
Interview
Profile of the company 
  Written Test 
The written paper is of one hour duration and consists 30 questions which are 
divided into three sectons: 
  Aptitude Section - 15 questions in 20 minutes. 
  Technical Section - 25 questons in 20 minutes. 
  C Programming Section - 15 questions in 20 minutes. 
    In the technical section, questions from Microprocessors, Operating Systems, 
Computer Networks etc. are asked. 
All questions are multiple choice type.
Click here to see the sample test.    
  Back To The Top
 
  Interview 
The interview as usual lays stress on your technical stream. Questions from C, 
C++, Operating Systems, Computer Networks will be asked.
The panel will also ask about your favourite subject. You should have a good 
grasp on the subject because you will be grilled on those subjects.
To know more about the interview we suggest that you look at the Interview 
Section in our site.
Back To The Top  

  Profile 
Incorporated in 1983, Novell helped create the local-area network (LAN) market 
by delivering server operating system software for storing shared files and 
providing access to network printers. With the shipment of NDS and 
directory-enabled NetWare in 1994, Novell built on its early success with 
product that tie together LANs into wide-area networks (WANs), and control and 
manage the information resources of the entire enterprise. Novell software 
provides an infrastructure for controlling and managing networks that include 
hardware and software products from many different vendors. Support is provided 
for: desktop workstations running varied operating systems, from the UNIX System 
to NT and other versions of Windows; servers running operating systems from 
Novell, Microsoft and leading UNIX providers; line-of-business applications; 
network applications based on JAVA; intranet and Internet technologies from 
Citrix, Sun/Netscape and others; mainframe environments from IBM and others; and 
data communications devices from Lucent, Nortel Bay and Cisco. 
Novell has facilities in over 20 countries and maintains an international 
network of distributor, reseller, education, and services partners. 
For more information about this company visit their homesite at 
http://www.novell.com/
Back To The Top
