
8.9 
USED
If the data to be transmitted on an ethernet frame is smaller 
than the minimun data specified in the payload section of the frame,
the outstanding portion is padded with 0s.
the data can not be transmitted.
there will be frame errors.
the packet is sent anyways.
8.9
Most LAN technologies define a Frame to consist of two parts, 
a Frame Header followed by:
Data Area
Source address
Destination address
Source and destination addresses
9.1
Physically, Twisted Pair Ethernet uses a star topology, but logically
 it functions like a:
Bus
Ring
Token Ring
RS-232
9.1
10baseT Ethernet is often called a star-shaped bus because:
physically, the network has a star topology, but logically it is still 
a bus.
Logically, the network has a star topology, but physically it is still 
a bus.
the computers attached to the network are all equidistant from the 
center of the star.
star topology is the same thing as bus topology.
9.1
Packet filtration in Ethernet is done by a ___________
Network interface
Hub
Bridge
Little person inside the computer
9.11
why does a network interface often come with multiple connectors 
to accomodate multiple wiring schemes
to accomodate physical topologies
to improve the speed of the connections
to improve the transmittion quality
9.11
Many network interfaces support multiple wiring schemes
to make it possible to change wiring schemes without changing interface
 hardware.
to reduce the cost of manufacturing network interface hardware.
to use the multiple wiring schemes all at once to improve reliablity.
None of the above.
9.12
In a ring in a box (which is a Token ring connected to a hub) The 
physical and logical topology is:
Physical star, logical ring
Physical ring, logical star
Physical star, logical bus
Any of the above will do suffice
9.12
What are the physical and logical network topologies resulted from 
using hub wiring with a Token Ring network?
A physical star and a logical Ring
A physical ring and a logical star
A physical star and a logical bus
A physical bus and a logical star
9.2 
USED
Despite the potential differences between processor and network 
speeds, networks are designed to operate:
at the highest rate hardware can support.
at the lowest rate hadware can support.
at the average rate hardware can support.
at the same rate of the hardware.
9.2
Networks are designed to operate at:
The highest rate hardware can support
The rate at which the slowest CPU on the network can operate
The rate at which the fastest CPU on the network can operate
Levels much higher than CPUs can process
9.3
Which of the following is not true about NIC (network interface cards)?
NIC's are universal, in that they can be interchanged between Ethernet, 
Token Ring or an FDDI ring.
NIC's allow a computer to send and recieve bits over a network faster 
than the computer's CPU can handle.
NEC's handle ALL the details of packet transmission and reception.
An NEC is a circuit board which plugs into the computer's bus, and a 
cable connects it to the network medium.
9.3
A NIC understands the electrical signals used on a network, the rate 
at which data must be sent or received and the details of the network
 frame format. The NIC is 
the special-purpose hardware of each computer which attaches to network.
the broadcast address.
designed to be used with Token Ring network. 
the physical address.
9.4
Which one of the following statements is false.
An Ethernet network interface card will also work on a token ring network.
Network interface cards may not always contain all the electronics
 necessary to interface to the network.
Ethernet technology is always the same, although the wiring scheme may
vary.
The type of connection used between a network interface card and a
 network depends on the network technology.
9.4
The type of connection used between the NIC and a network depends on:
Network Technology
Computer Hardware
Network Bandwidth
Connection Distance
9.4
Which of the following are true of Network Interface Cards: i) some 
NIC's attach directly to the network using a cable or fibre. ii) some 
NIC's use an external transceiver to interface with the network. iii)
 A NIC isn't used to attach to a network.
i, ii
i
ii
iii
9.5
In an original Thick Ethernet wiring scheme, which of the following is
 required?
At least on transceiver for the network.
A 20 metre length of CAT5 cable.
BNC connectors and terminators.
A star topology.
9.5
what's the purpose of a connection multiplexor
it allows multiple computers to attach to a single transceiver
it allows multiple transceivers to attach to a single computer
it improves the speed of the network
it accomodates the logical topology of the network
9.6
An electronic device that allows multiple computers to attach to a 
network through a single tranceiver is called a:
Connection Multiplexor
Hub
Terminator
Switch
9.6
A connection multiplexor is an electronic device that allows:
multiple computers to attach to a network through a single transciever
multiple computers to attach to a network without a transciever
multiple computers to attach to a network through a phoneline
Nothing as no such device exists
9.7
One differance between thin ethernet and thick ethernet is 
thin ethernet does not use AUI cables to attache to the NIC 
Thin ethernet has less bandwidth then thick ethernet 
Thin ethernet does not use a bus topology 
Thin ethernet uses twisted pair cables while thick ethernet uses coaxial
 cable 
9.7 
USED
What does Thin Ethernet wiring use to connect network interface cards to
 each other? 
A BNC connector. 
An AUI cable. 
A multiplexor. 
A tranceiver. 
9.7
Which of the following statements about thin ethernet wiring (Thinnet) 
is true:
Thinnet generally costs less to install and operate than Thicknet.
Thinnet requires an AUI cable to attach the NIC to the communication
 medium.
Thinnet uses the star physical topology.
Thinnet is made of optical fibers.
9.8
The style of Ethernet formally called 10Base-T is also known as:
Twisted pair Ethernet
Coaxial Ethernet
RJ-45 Ethernet
Token Ring Ethernet
9.8 
USED
What is used with twisted pair ethernet?
hub
coaxial cable
terminator
bridge
9.9
Which of the following is not a disadvantage of having a wiring scheme
 with separate tranceivers?
A computer cannot be changed without disrupting the network.
Tranceivers are often locked in a remote location that is difficult to
 reach.
If a tranceiver fails, finding, testing or replacing it can be tedious.
Accidental unplugging of the main cable leaves the segments unterminated,
 which disrupts the entire network.
9.9
Which of the following is a disadvantage of wiring schemes. 
Having separate transceivers.
10Base-T wiring is too expensive.
If a transceiver loses power, the other transceiver can not continue to 
operate.
If a single wire is accidentally cut from the hub, only one machine is 
disconnect.
10.1
Suppose a bridge uses a leased satellite channel to connect LAN segments 
at two sites. What happens if frames continue to arrive from one of the
 LAN segments faster than the satellite can send them.
the bridge will run out of memory and begin to discard frames
only parts of frames will be sent
the bridge will only send the destination address of the frame
the bridge will only send the source address of the frame
10.11
Are all broadcast frames always forwarded by ALL bridges
No
Yes
Only if all segments are connected to all other segments
Only if it's a stormy night
10.11
If a network has a cycle of bridges, then a packet sent over the network
 will stop when:
It will never stop. 
It reaches the destination computer.
It reaches all the bridges in the network.
It reaches the starting computer again.
10.12
To prevent the problem of infinite loops, a bridged network must not
 allow,
All bridges to forward all frames and the bridged network to contain
 a cycle of bridged segments.
All bridges to forward all frames.
The bridged network to contain cycles of bridged segments.
None of the above.
10.12
To prevent the problem of infinite loops, a bridged network must not 
allow both of the following conditions to occur simulataneously.
i) all bridges forward all frames ii) the bridged network contains a 
cycle of bridged segments
i) all bridges forward no frames ii) the bridged network does not 
contain a cycle of bridged segments
i) all bridges forward all frames ii) the bridged network does not
 contain a cycle of bridged segments
i) all bridges forward no frames ii) the bridged network contains a 
cycle of bridged segments
10.12 
USED
What algorithm do bridges preform a compulation to decide which bridges
 will not forward frames?
DST
Dijkstra's
Kruskal
DSL
10.13
What is the maximum possible bandwidth of a switch, given the R is the 
data transmit rate and N is the total number of computers connected to 
the switch?
R * N / 2
R * N 
R * N / 4 
R * N / 3 
10.13
The cheif advantage of using a switched LAN instead of a hub is:
The maximum possible bandwidth is greater than if a hub was used.
The minimum possible bandwidth is greater then if a hub was used.
Switches are easier and cheaper to make then hubs.
There are less connections to a switch then to a hub.
10.13
What is the maximum possible bandwidth of a switch?
RN/2 R-rate of one computers data transmission, N-total # of computers
 connected to switch
Specified by the hardware of the switch
Depends on the type of wiring used to connect to the switch
Depends on the weather
10.14
What advantage does a hub have over a switch?
Cost
Higher data rates
Both Cost and Higher data rates
Neither Cost nor Higher data rates
10.14
By connecting a hub to each port on a switch and then connecting each
 computer to one of the hubs you can resemble what kind of network?
Conventional Bridged LAN
Filtering Bridged LAN
Repeater linked LAN
Wide Area network (WAN)
10.15
Although the FDDI network has a logical ring topology, it has a physical
star topology
ring topology
bus topology
network topology
10.15
What can an FDDI hub do?
Detect broken links and reconfigure a network.
Safeguard against lightning.
Nothing, it's just another piece of hardware.
Detect broken links and reconfigure a network.
10.15
The topology of a counter-rotating ring most often associated with an 
FDDI hub is:
physical star 
physical ring
Bus
logical star
10.2 
USED
Which of the following is a reason that LAN hardware is engineered to work with fixed maximum length cable? 
To ensure that delays do not become significant. 
To minimize cost of implementation and installation. 
To make it easier to find and repair damaged hardware. 
To maximize the bitrate. 
10.2
Which of the following is not a reason why LANs are designed to work with a fixed maximum cable length.
To reduce noise in the network.
An electrical signal gradually becomes weaker as it travels along a copper wire, so the signal cannot reach arbitrarily far.
CSMA/CD takes time proportional to the size of the network, causing larger delays as the size of the network increases.
Token passing takes time proportional to the size of the network, causing larger delays as the size of the network increases.
10.3
Which is true of a fiber optic extension?
It has a low delay and high bandwith
It uses repeaters to connect the optical fibers to the ethernet segment
It can only relay signals up to 500 meters
All of the above
10.3
The chief advantage of fibre modems in extending LAN connectivity is
the ability to provide a connection to a remote LAN without changing the original LAN or the computer 
more throughput
the increase i bandwidth over twisted pair
the robustness of the fibre and fibre modems as well as their debug characteristics
10.4 
USED
Repeaters have several drawbacks. The most important drawback arises because
Repeater does not understand complete frames 
Repeater is limited 500m
Repeater needs drawback to avoid generating unwanted signal noise. 
Repeater senses all electrical signals on one cable. 
10.5
MODIFIED Which one of the following is NOT true of bridges: 
a bridge immediately amplifies and forwards signals as soon as they arrive, including noise
bridges use the same network interface as the other computers on the network
a bridge listens to the network in promiscuous mode.
a bridge connects exactly two segments
10.5
Both bridges and repeaters connect LAN segments but Bridges _______________________
Verify if a frame arrived intact
transmit only half a frame at a time
don't listen to traffic on either side
lead to Rome
10.6
Bridges learn where the other terminals of the network are by,
listening to segments on the network and adding it to its tables
being pre-programed by the system administrator.
by flooding the network with packets when the bridge is added.
none of the above.
10.6
Adaptive bridges use the physical addresses in the frame's header as follows: the source address to automatically determine the location of the computer that ________ a frame, and the destination address to determine whether to ________ a frame.
sent, forward
received, forward
sent, delete
received, delete
10.7
How far does a bridge forward each frame in the steady state?
As far as necessary 
As far as possible
The adjacent bridge
Doesn't care as long as it reaches the destination computer 
10.7
How does an adaptive bridge attaching two LAN segments learn where computers in the network are located at startup?
By recording which segment the frames come from.
They don't; they must be programmed by a programmer every time.
They record the destination addresses contained in received frames.
They store a list of all computers and their locations in the network.
10.8 
USED
The performance of a birdged network can be maximized by:
attaching computers that interact frequently to the same segment.
attaching computers that interact frequently to different segments.
attaching only one computer to each segment.
attaching all the computers to one segment.
10.8
Which of the following best describes a bridged network.
Allows different segments to be used simultaneously.
Parallel networking.
Both of the above.
Neither of the above.
10.9
How many fiber connections are required to create a bridge between two buildings?
1
2
One for every computer in the LAN
It depends on how far apart the buildings are
10.9
The use of a bridge, fibre modems and optical fibres in the situation of bridging a LAN between buildings has several advantages over using repeaters or other schemes. Which one of the following is not an advantage?
allows the use of the line for video conferencing as well
less expensive
more flexibility in exchanging hardware
allows simultaneous communication in the two segments
10.9
Like repeaters, what also can be used so that two networks of long distance apart may be able to communicate with each other:
Bridges
Bridges
Modem
RS- 232
11.1
Which is the most correct answer?
OC standards refer to the optical signals that propagate across the fibre.
OC standards refer to the electrical signals used in the digital circuits.
STS standards require optical fibre.
STS standards refer to the specification on how to multiplex multiple phone calls onto a single connection.
11.1
In the STS hierarchy, what does OC stand for?
Optical Carrier
Over Copper
Optimum Carrier
Optical Connection
11.1 
USED
STS and OC terminology posses the feature of an optional suffix of the letter C. What does the C stand for?
concatenated
congested
counted
carried
11.11
Why do network designers prefer an OC-3C circuit over an OC-3 circuit?
Since OC-3C is a single circuit whereas OC-3 consists of 3 OC-1 circuits 
The suffix 'C' stands for 'cool'
Just a better choice
The transfer speed is greater for the OC-3C than OC-3
11.11
An OC-3 circuit consists of three OC-1 circuits operating at _____________?
51.840 Mbps each
24.320 Mbps each
51.840 kbps
24.320 kbps
11.12
What is the transmission rate of an STS-3 (OC-3) circuit- given that, when SONET is used, each frame holds 2430 octets?
155.52Mbps
19.4 Mbps
103.68 Mbps
51.84 Mbps
11.12
In North America, the standard use the term SONET, while in Europe they are known as?
SDH.
SDI.
STS.
SDT.
11.12
Which ONE of the following statements is true about Synchronous Optical NETwork (SONET)?
The frame size defined by SONET depends on the bit rate of the underlying circuit.
SONET is ONLY used to build high-capacity ring networks with multiple data circuits multiplexed together.
SONET is a broad set of standards defined by the phone companies for analog transmission.
The frame size defined by SONET is larger for an STS-1 line than for an STS-3 line (i.e. there are more octets contained in the frame).
11.13
The current term local subscriber loop" was adopted from:"
The term telephone companies used to refer to the connection between the central office and the individual subscriber's residence
The route newspaper delivery boys were to told to take so that they finished their routes at the same place they started
The route a packet uses when traversing a network
the internal hardware connections linking the network to the user.
11.13 
USED
The term 'local loops' or 'local subscriber line' are used to describe:
The connection between a network provider and an individual subscriber
The connection between the computers on a LAN
The connection between LAN's
The connection between an individual subscriber and an online newspaper.
11.13
Which of the following statements are false about the Local Subscriber Loop?
(a). It provides high-speed connection to individual subscribers.
(b). The connection between the phone company and an individual subscriber is called the local subscriber line"."
(c). Most local loops use analog signals.
(d). The voice bandwidth and signal-to-noise ratio of telephone lines limits the rate at which bits can be sent.
11.14
This standard uses the same type of twisted pair copper wiring as the analog telephone system.
ISDN
IEEE 802.10
ATM
DSL
11.14
What does ISDN stand for?
Integrated Services Digital Network
Internet Services Digital Network 
Internet Server Digital Network
Integrated Server Digital Network
11.15
Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line (ADSL) provides 
higher bit rate downstream than upstream.
higher bit rate upstream than downstream.
equal bit rate of downstream and upstream.
low bit rate of downstream and upstream.
11.15
The motivation behind having a DSL technology that is asymetric is:
The average user downloads much more than they upload.
The telephone network only allows it to be this way.
So that you can talk on the phone at the same time as being online.
symetric DSL technology is too complicated to impliment.
11.16
Which of the following is not a variation on DSL technology?:
ODSL - Optical Network Digital Subscriber Line 
VDSL - Very-High Bit Rate Digital Subscriber Line
SDSL - Symmetric Digital Subscriber Line
HDSL - High-Rate Digital Subscriber Line
11.16
Which DSL technology has the advantage that if one of the two twisted pairs fails, the modems do not fail completely, they continue to operate at one half the maximum bit rate?
HDSL
SDSL
VDSL
ADSL
11.16
Which of the following is NOT a DSL technology? (pg. 159-160)
XDSL
SDSL
ADSL
HDSL
11.17
What is the disadvantage of the cable modem?
sharing bandwidth with other subscribers
coaxial cable susceptable to interference
maximum speed is as slow as dial-up
doesn't take up the phone line
11.17
One of the advantages of cable modem technology is:
It doesn't require completly new infrastructure because many residential areas have cable TV.
Subscribers share bandwith with other subscribers.
Even the large bandwith available on CABTV is not sufficient to handle a frequency division multiplexing that extends to each user.
Requires a black box to view unpaid channels.
11.18
What kind of delivery the original cable porvided?
downstream.
upstream.
bidirectional.
dailup connection.
11.18
What was the main disadvantage of the original cable system for providing Internet access?
Upstream communication was impossible with the existing infrastructure.
The broadband amplifiers were bi-directional.
The use of coaxial cable resulted in too much noise for an efficient connection.
The system could only implement analog communication, not digital.
11.18
Original CATV infastructure disadvatage was because signals went only in the:
downstream direction
upward direction 
northern direction 
southern direction
11.19
What type of multiplexing does Hybrid Fiber Coax use?
A Combination of Frequency-Division and Time-Division
Time-Division only
Frequency-Division only
Spread-spectrum
11.19
Which of the following does the Hybrid Fiber Coax (HFC) cable system reserve bandwidth for?
(a). All below (b), (c) and (d).
(b). Analog television.
(c). Downstream digital communication.
(d). Upstream digital communication.
11.19
In Hybrid Fiber Coax , trink lines must be replaced with .........?
Optical fiber
Coax wire
RS-232
Copper wire
11.2
How many media does FTTC use in each feeder circuit to allow the cable system to provide an additional service?
2
0
1
3
11.2
According to Nyquist's sampling theorem, digitized voice needs samples taken:
8000 times per second
4000 times per second
125 times per micro-second
4000 times per micro-second
11.2
The idea of this technology is to run optical fiber close to the suscriber and then use copper for the feeder circuits.
FTTC
ISDN
DSL
T1/T3
11.2
How does Fiber To The Curb (FTTC) differ from Hybrid Fiber Coax (HFC)? 
Fiber To The Curb differs from Hybrid Fiber Coax because it uses two media in each feeder circuit to allow the cable system to provide an addition service.
Fiber To The Curb differs from Hybrid Fiber Coax because it uses optical fibre for high capacity trunks.
Fiber To The Curb differs from Hybrid Fiber Coax because unlike Fiber To The Curb, Hybrid Fibre Coax must run and additional wire to each house to use Hybrid Fibre Coax.
Fiber To The Curb differs from Hybrid Fiber Coax because Fiber To The Curb can deliver digital services to must subscribers where Hybrid Fibre Coax cannot. 
11.21
Which the followings is false
none of above
Using high frequencies on telephone lines that contain loading coil, taps or repeaters.
using a hybrid scheme with a dialup telephone connection carrying upstream traffic.
using wireless technologies similar to digital cellular services.
11.21
Which of the following is not true for ADSL technology?
ADSL can be implimented anywhere in Canada, with no restrictions. p.163
It may be impossible to use high frequency on telephone lines that contain coils, taps, or repeaters.
The copper wiring must have sufficient gauge.
Some locations exceed the maximum distance for ADSL to work properly.
11.21
The algorithm for developing a routing table is based on what graphing princible. 
Shortest Path 
Shortest distance 
Adjacency Matrix
Linked representation
11.3
The facilities used for digitized voice differ from the systems used for data. Why?
Because voice systems use synchrous technology, while data uses asynchronous technology.
Because voice is not the same as data and cannot be sent using the same facilites. 
Because voice systems use asynchrous technology, while data uses synchronous technology.
Because more people use the phone lines for voice rather then data.
11.4
The DSU portion of a DSU/CSU device handles the data. If the data rate is above 56Kbps, what interface hardware standard must the computer use?
RS-449 or V.35
RS-232 or RS-449
RS-232 or V.35 
RJ-45 or RS-449
11.4
What is the special piece of hardware needed to interface a computer to a digital circuit provided by a telephone company?
DSU/CSU
RS-232
T-series standards
TDM
11.4 
USED
A digital circuit requires a Data Service Unit/Channel Service Unit (DSU/CSU)at each end because:
The DSU/CSU translates the different digital representations used by phone companies and the computer industry.
A DSU/CSU will prevent termination of the line.
The DSU/CSU is required to amplify a signal over long distances.
A DSU/CSU will check that interference isn't repeated across the line.
11.5
U.S. standards for digital telephone curcuits are collectively known as what?
T-series standards
E-series standards
Digital Service Standards
Digital Telephone Interface Standards
11.5
What is the most popular T-series circuit used by most companies?
T1
T3
ISDN
E2
11.5
In addition to using copper or optical fiber for land segments, a T1 circuit that crosses an ocean may pass through what?
a satellite
copper
microwave
radio signal
11.6
A single voice channel requires how many Kbps?
24 Kbps
8 Kbps
32 Kbps
256 Kbps
11.6
How many independant voice calls was the data rate of the T1 standard chosen to allow, using a bit rate of 1.544 Mbps?
24
64
96
1
11.6
Digital circuits are classified according to a set of telephone standards. Two of the most popular circuit types in North America are?
T1 and T3.
cable modem and xDSL.
ISDN and xDSL.
T1 and T2.
11.7
TDM, a technology used by companies to subdivide a T1 circuit stands for:
Time Division Multiplexing
Try Doing More
Time Division Multiplexing
Terminal Data Multiplier
11.7
The term that is used to refer to the concept of subdividing a T1 circuit is called
Time Division Multiplexing
Synchronous Transport Signal standards
ISDN
xDSL
11.7
What type of multiplexing does a phone company use to provide small businesses and private individuals with fractional T1 connections?
Time-Division Multiplexing
Phase-shift Multiplexing
Wave-division Multiplexing
Spread-spectrum Multiplexing
11.8 
USED
What technology is used to handle intermediate capacity circuit?
inverse multiplexing
time-division multiplexing
frquency multiplexing
DSU/CSU
11.8
Which are the functions of CSU/CDUs?
connecting a network to some types of public telephone networks
Connecting networks with different protocols
routing signals between logical networks
translate analog representations computers use and the analog representations that are used by the phone company. 
11.8
A T3 circuit has how many times the capacity of a T1 circuit? 
28
3
9
14
11.9
The number of Voice Circuits in STS-1 standard is 810. What is the number of voice circuits in STS-3?
2430
1620
813
813 ^ 3 -- 810 to the power of 3
11.9
Telephone companies use the term truck to denote a
high-capacity circuit.
intermediate-capacity digital circuit.
normal-capacity analog circuit.
low-capacity circuit.
12.1
Imagining WAN as a graph that models a network each node in the graph corresponds to
Packet switch 
Optimal Route
Computer 
Dynamic Routing
12.1
For a WAN to work correctly, values in the routing table must guarantee the following:
universal routing and optimal routes
universal routing
optimal routes
bidirectional routing
12.1
To handle a large increase of computers in a network, which switches can be added to the network
(a) Both of (b) and (c)
(b) interior switches
(c) exterior switches
(d) None of (b) and (c)
12.11
In the forwarding mechanism, if a switch doesn't find an explicit entry for a givin destination, what's going to do with the packet?
It uses the default entry as destination
It discards the packet
It sends it back to where it came from
It sends it to all the packet switches it has immediate connenction
12.11
A default route is a mechanism which most WAN systems include to be used to eliminate duplication routing. Which one is true for using the mechanism:
The forwarding mechanism uses the default entry when it does not find an explicit entry for a given destination. 
One or more default entries are allowed in a routing table.
The default entry has higher priority than other entries.
A default entry is present if more than one source has the same next-hop value.
12.11
What is the main purpose of Default routers?
To route all information when primary router fails.
To route default information.
To route information to default network.
To send information to system administrator.
12.12
What are the two basic approaches used to compute routing entries?
Dynamic routing and Static routing.
Dynamic routing and Configurable routing.
Configurable routing and static.
Automatic routing and Configurable.
12.12
The chief advantages of static routing are
simplicity and low network overhead
handle problems automatically
can be modified easily
more flexible
12.12
Which of the following is true?
Dynamic routing allows the network to handle problems automatically.
Both static and dynamic routing allows the programs to monitor traffic in the network as well as the status of the network hardware.
The chief advantages of dynamic routing are simplicity and low network overhead.
Most large networks use a form of static routing.
12.13 
USED
Chose the best method for long distance digital connections for a rural or remote area.
Telephone dial up upstream, direct broadcast satellite downstream. 
Fiber to the curb
Hybrid Fiber Coax
Adaptive digital subsciber line
12.13
The shortest path in a graph by using weights on edges must be the path with _____________ . 
the minimum sum of weights of edges along the path
the fewest number of edges along the path
the fewest number of nodes along the path
the fewest number of both edges and nodes along the path
12.13 
USED
Which one is correct about Dijkstra's Algorithm?
A path with fewest number of edges may not be the path with least weight
The algorithm requires edges in graph to represent geographic distance.
Function weight(i,j) is assumed to return zero if no edge exists from node i to node j.
Two data structures are needed to implement Dijkstra's Algorithm.
12.14
In Distributed Route Computation,
each packet switch computes its routing table locally.
static routing is used.
a routing table is computed after information about a network is encoded in a graph. 
the routing table is computed when the packet switch boots and the routes do not change.
12.14
When each packet switch computes it routing table locally, and then sends messages across the network to neighboring packet switches to inform them of the result, what is the technique people use here?
distributed route computation 
routing table computation
path computation between two nodes
none of above
12.14
The information a rounting table supplied : 
3. can be modified
1. never changed
2. appear randomly
3. can be modified 
12.15
In distance vector routing, what is the defination of distance to a destination"?"
the sum of the weights along the path to the destination.
the sum of the length along the path to the destination.
the time needed to transfer a packet to the destination.
the number of paths to the destination.
12.15
What does the message contain while a packet switch sending routing information across the network to neighbours a, destination b, distance
both a and b
a
b
neither a nor b
12.15
Which of the following statements is NOT true about distance -vector routing?
Switches perform independent computation.
Switches update routing table based on received imformation.
Switches periodically broadcast topology imformation.
Local imformation is next-hop routing table and distance from each other.
12.16
The lagorithm link-state routing is NOT the same as ____
distance-vector routing
link-status routing,
shortest path first,
SPF routing
12.16
An alternative form of distributed route computation exists. Formally, the alternative algorithm is known as:
link-status routing
SPF routing
Dijkstra's algorithm
Default routing
12.16
What is the difference between distance vector alogarithm and SPF system that makes SPF system better (during hardware failure)?
SPF alogarithm can be carried out simultaneously, SPF can calculate automatically after receiving a noticement
distance vector must be done manually
SPF alogarithm requires packet switch to update its routing table before sending a message to another packet switch
all correct
12.2
The key issue that seperates WAN technologies from LAN technologies is? 
scalability 
packet switching 
bandwidth
number of nodes
12.2
The key issue that seperates WAN technology from LAN technology is? (pg. 167-168)
scalibility
speed of data transfer
only WAN's can have a satellite bridge
a WAN can not grow as needed
12.2
Which category would a network which could span sites in multiple cities, countries or continents fall into?
WAN
MAN
LAN
FAN
12.3
What is a packet switch?
Small computer with proccerssor and memory as well as I/O devices used to send and receive packets.
Repeater which is used in WAN.
The high speed connection between switches.
A switch which can turn off a computer in case of emergency.
12.3
How can a WAN scale to handle many computers?
use packet switches to connect individual computers.
use a point-to-point leased data circuit.
use special network interface hardware.
use bridges
12.4
Which ONE of the following is true about a Wide Area Network (WAN)?
A WAN is formed by a set of interconnected switches which are connected to computers.
A WAN must be symmetric.
It is difficult to add switches or interconnections to a WAN.
A WAN implements a ring topology.
12.4
A WAN is formed by interconnecting
a set of packet switches
a set of segments
a set of computers 
a set of inter connecting layers
12.4
A WAN is formed by interconnecting ________________
a set of packet switches and connecting computers.
a set of packet switches
a set of computers
several LANs.
12.5
Which of the following activities don't occur during the forward" operation in the "Store and Forward" method?"
(a). A copy of the packet is made and placed in the switch's memory.
(b). The packet is examined at the switch.
(c). The output hardware is started in order to send the packet.
(d). Determine the interface that packet should be sent on.
12.5
What's the fastest spped that a system using store and forward paradigm can move the packets through network?
As fast as hardware capacity allows
Faster than hardware capacity
as fast as bandwith
slower than hardware capacity allows
12.5
Which of the following statements about store and forward is not true:
Store and forward is a fundamental switching paradigm used with LAN packet switching system. 
Store and forward switching allows many computers to send packets simultaneously.
In store and forward technique, packets arriving at a switch are placed in a queue till the switch can forward them on toward their destination.
The technique allows a packet switch to buffer a short burst of packets that arrive at the same time to perform store and forward switching. 
12.6 
USED
Hierarchical adressing divides an address into multiple parts. What is the first part?
The first part identifies a packet switch.
The first part identifies a computer attached to the packet switch.
The first part identifies the physical address.
The first part identifies the destination address.
12.6
Many WANs use _____________ addressing scheme that makes forwarding more efficient.
hierachical addressing scheme
static addressing scheme
configurable addressing scheme
dynamic addressing scheme
12.7
Which is true of a packet switch using next hop forwarding:
does not keep complete information about how to reach all possible destinations. P. 172
does keep complete information about how to reach all possible destinations.
always sends the packet to the final destination.
none of the above.
12.7
In a WAN, a switch packet forwards to another switch packet by:
The switch packet has the information about the next hop only.
The switch packet keep complete information on how to reach all possible destinations.
The switch packet only forwards to other switch packets.
The switch packet only forwards to compters.
12.7
A packet switch needs to keep information about ___________ ________ so that it can send a packet to its destination.
just next place (hop) that will eventurally lead to its destination
all details of how to reach all possible destination
all switches along the path to destination
all computers connected along the path to destination
12.8
Next-hop forwarding depends on what? (pg.173)
the packet's destination
the packet's orginal source
the path the packet has taken before it arrives at a particular packet switch
the size of the packet
12.8
Which of the following does next-hop forwarding depend on?
The packet's destination.
The packet's original source.
The path the packet has taken before it arrives at the particular packet switch.
Whether the current packet switch is an interior or exterior switch.
12.8
what does next-hop forwarding depend on?
The packet's destination 
The packet's original source
The path that the packet has taken before it arrives at a particular packet switch
none of above
12.9
What is a routing table?
Table used to store next-hop information.
Technical term of the standard used for serial data connection such as those between a keyboard and a computer
A term used to describe the general shape of a network.
Table used to store the addresses of PC manufacturing companies.
12.9
When forwarding a packet, what part of a hierachical address a packet switch only needs to examine?
the first part.
the second part.
the third part.
not necessary to examine.
12.9
Which part of a hierachical address does the packet switch need to examine while fowarding a packet a, first part b, second part
a
b
both a and b
neither a nor b
14.11
A sliding window scheme does the following:
aggressively uses more of the underlying bandwith to improve throughput
reduces the number of packets being inserted to prevent the network from collapsing.
NONE OF THE ABOVE
ALL OF THE ABOVE
14.2
An agreement that specifies the format and meaning of messages computers exchange is known as:
a communication protocol
an application
a software
a hardware
14.2
An application interacts with ...... that follows the rules of a given protocol when communicating.
protocol software
network protocol
header
encrypted data
14.2
A set of rules that specify the format of messages and the appropriate actions required for each message is known as a:
Network protocol
List of standards
Data link
Command centre
14.3
What are protocol suites?
Different protocols used by different networks.
Type of IP address.
Organization encharged of protocols.
Protocol used in the Internet.
14.3 
USED
Protocols in a suite are designed to:
All of the above
Handle separate portions of the communication individually
Interact with each other
Make the communication system efficient and effective
14.4
The correct order from lowest to highest layer in ISO layering model is________________.
Physical,Data Link,Network,Transport,Session,Presentation,Application
Physical,Network,Data Link,Session,Transport,Presentation,Application
Physical,Data Link,Session,Network,Transport,Presentation,Application
Data Link,Physical,Network,Transport,Session,Presentation,Application
14.4 
USED
How many layers have been defined in ISO(International Organization for Standarization) layer model?
7
9
5
4
14.4
In the layering model, what does each layer correspond to?
A protocol.
A level of hardware/software.
A session.
An encapsulation of the entire message being sent from the layer above. (note: wrong because you are doing just the opposite)
14.5
Which layer does specification for security details such as authentication using passwords belong to?
Layer 5
Layer 3
Layer 4
Layer 6
14.5
In the ISO 7-layer Reference Model, the lowest layer (i.e. Layer 1) corresponds with:
Physical(network hardware).
Application.
Presentation.
Transport.
14.6
Incoming data passes _ through each layer. 
1. up
1. up 
2. down
3. at the same level
14.6
Which of the following is not an example of a protocol stack
SMDS
TCP/IP 
Appletalk
Netware
14.7 
USED
If the Data Link software on a sending computer adds a checksum before transmitting the frame over the network. Which Layer software on the receiving computer will verify and remove the checksum when the frame arrives?
Data Link
Network
Transport
Session
14.7
Software in the _______ layer is responsible to perform checksum.
Data Link
Physical
Transport
Network
14.7
Layered software works by:
Having each software layer solve one part of the communication problem.
Having each software layer handle an entire packet on its own.
Having each software layer handle packets of a different vendor protocol such as TCP/IP, IPX/SPX and DECNET.
Having each software layer decode a different portion of the packet in parallel to achieve greater data throughput.
14.8
In protocol header, why ther is no layer 1 header?
Because layer 1, data link layer, communicates directly
It is left for the possibility at the future, for a better protocol header
Because this layer is transmission layer, only sending data so, it doesn't need any header
None is correct
14.8
In the ISA layering model, the header for the data link protocol occurs:
First
Last
Second
Second last
14.8
Usually, each layer places additional header information before sending data to a lower layer. Thus, a frame travelling across a network contains?
A series of nested headers
cyclic redundancy check protocols
replay errors
flow control mechanisms
14.9
If a networking layer, N, on the sending side applies a transformation, T, to a piece of data, the following transformation needs to be applied on the recieving side:
T^-1, the inverse transformation, at the same layer, N.
T, the transformation, at the same layer, N.
T^-1, the inverse transformation, at any layer in the stack.
T, the transformation, at any layer in the stack.
14.9
which of the following is true about the layering principle
Layer n" software on the destination computer must recieve the exact message sent by layer "n" software on the sending computer"
That in all case the following layering structure must be followed: physical-network-transport-session-application
layering doesn't require any thought into protocol design and testing
if one layer encrypts a frame before sending it doesn't need decrypted at the recieving computer
12.17.1
Which one of the following answers is correct for ARPANET:
ARPANET is one of the first packet switched WANs. 
By past standards ARPANET was slow. 
ARPANET is a fast packet switching technique. 
APRANET is Advanced Research Projects Agency Net.
12.17.1
What is ARPANET?
It is how the Internet began.
A network for musicians.
Research group that keeps track of the Internet.
A second Internet.
12.17.2
What kind of WAN technology privides two-way communication but has limits on the speed at which it can deliver data 
x.25
Frame Delay
SMDS
ATM
12.17.2
Which of the following is true about X.25 network?
Each X.25 network consists of two or more X.25 packet switches interconnected by leased lines.
X.25 networks are more popular in the United States than in Europe.
X.25 can be used for communication between computers, and it is not expensive for the performance it delivers.
X.25 can be used for communication between computers, and it can deliver data at very high speed.
12.17.2
Which of the following WAN technology has been developed by ITU(International Telecommunications Union)?
X.25
ATM
Frame Relay
SMDS
12.17.3
___________ technology is used to handle data transmision with high rate between LAN segments in Wide Area Network.
Frame Relay
ARPANET
X.25
ATM
12.17.3
Among WAN technologies, which one is designed for use in bridging LAN segments?
Frame Relay
ARPANET
x.25
SMDS
12.17.4
what kind of speed does SMDS provide?
High speed 
Low speed
Middle speed
none of above
12.17.4
Both frame relay and SMDS are operated at high speed. But frame relay is often _ than SMDS
2. slower
1. faster
2. slower
3. the same
12.17.4
Which of the following statements is true regarding Switched Multi-Megabit Data Service (SMDS) 
It is a high speed data transfer service provided by long distance carriers. 
It is a device that is often used when connecting to seperate networks in the same building. 
It is often a cause of network collisions 
It is an example of a protocol stack
12.17.5 
USED
ATM technology divides all data into small fixed-size packets called cells to achieve:
high data rates, low delay, high jitter
high data rates, low delay, low jitter
low data rates, low delay, low jitter
low data rates, low delay, high jitter
12.17.5
Which of the following statements is true about ATM network?
High data rates, low delay, low jitter.
High data rates, low delay, high jitter.
Low data rates, low delay, high jitter.
Low data rates, high delay, high jitter.
12.17.5
The ATM technology has: __ data rates, __ delay, __ jitter.
high, low, low
low, low, low
high, low, high
None of the above
14.10.1
How to handle the out-of-order deliveries in network system?
Transport protocols use sequencing
use shorter path
Receiver will deliver the packet to the next highest layer to handle it.
Receiver will discard the out-of-order packet.
14.10.1
If a packet 4 arrives before packet three (for example), what does the receiving side of this packet typically do? (assuming this is the first occurance for packet four)
Saves it. (may need it later!)
Deletes it. (it is out of order)
Tells sender that it received the packet. (don't have to send again)
Passes it up to the next highest layer in the stack.
14.10.1 
USED
What does a connectionless network system use to handle out-of-order packet delivery?
sequencing
cyclic redundancy check
packet identifiers
all packets are processed as they arrive, regardless of whether they are out of order.
14.10.2
A transciever malfunction can occur in a LAN that uses CSMA/CD. This causes the receiver to sense a valid transmission while sender senses a collision. As a result what happens. 
Sender backs off from the collision and retransmits the frame 
The Sender detects a malfunction and retransmits the frame.
The Receiver tranmsits an acknowledgement of the frame to the sender. And the sender continues sending the next frame.
The receiver detects the error and sends a control packet to terminate the conversation
14.10.5
Which of the following are true of the sliding window technique of flow control.
ALL OF THE ABOVE
Both the sender and receiver use the same fixed window size
The receiver sends an acknowledgement for each frame within the sliding window
The receiver must have buffer space ready to receiver the ENTIRE window.
15.2
Why is it that most large organizations use several different networking technologies?
No single networking technology is best for all needs
Lack of IP addresses
To increase security
To reduce costs
15.2
What is the main motivation for internetworking?
There are many diverse networks and one needs to be able to connect them.
Its cool!
Everyone wants to get on the internet, hence it is necessary.
It is the only way to get Internet Explorer to work.
15.2
A large organization with diverse networking requirements needs _________ .
multiple physical networks.
multiple logical networks.
a single physical network.
a single logical network.
15.3
Which of the following aboutuniversal service"is true?"
All of the above
It greatly increases productivity of each computer.
ATM provides universal service.
None of the above.
15.3
With universal service, a user ____ can send messages or data to any other user.
on any computer in any part of an organization
on any comuputer in the same part of an organization
on the same computer in any part of an orgranization
on the same computer in the same part of an orgranization
15.3
What is Universal Service?
A communication system that allows arbitrary paris of computers to communicate.
A communication system that allows computers to communicate only with other computers on their network.
A communication system made up of multiple networks which cannot communicate with each other.
A communications system designed to initiate first contact with arbitrary new life forms in this universe.
15.4
What prevents an organization from building a bridged network that includes arbitrary technologies?
Incompatibilities among network hardware and physical addressing.
Different makes of computers.
The many different speeds of computers that are used in the network.
People will never allow for arbitrary techologies to unite.
15.4
section 15.4 Bridging cannot be used with heterogeneous network technologies. It is because
different technologies use incompatible packet formats and addressing schemes.
different technologies use compatible packet formats and addressing schemes.
same technologies use compatible packet formats and addressing schemes.
non of above
15.4
Although universal services are highly desirable, organizations are not able to build bridged networks that include arbitrary number of technologies because:
incompatibilities among hardware and physical addressing.
bridges are expensive.
bridging technology is still un-mature.
non of the above.
15.5
The resulting system of interconnected networks is known as
Internetwork
Intranetwork
Extranetwork
None of the Above
15.5
what is internetworking
a universal service among different networks and the resulting system of software and hardware creates internet
a large number of computers put together
special software to ease communication with other computers
a network restricted in size
15.6
Which of the following is not a feature of a router?
None of the above.
It can interconnect different media types.
It can interconnect different addressing schemes.
It can interconnect different frame formats.
15.6
A basic hardware component used to connect heterogeneous networks is a:
Router
Bridge
Amplifier
Repeater
15.7
What are the three things an organization must take into consideration when planning an internet? I) reliability II) capacity III) cost IV) space V) size of the LAN
I, II, III
I, III, V
II, III, IV
I, II, IV
15.7
What advantage(s) does the internet scheme provide an organization?
Each of these are provide advantages to an organization.
Allows an organization to choose the type of network(s) it wants.
Allows an ornganization to have any number of networks connected by routers in a topology it finds appropriate for its needs.
Allows an organization to choose the number of networks it wants.
15.7
What is the main reason that organizations seldom use a single router to connect all of its networks?
To increase reliability by providing alternate pathways to send traffic.
A single router can only connect exactly two networks together and most organizations usually have more than two networks to connect.
To increase speed and throughput by utilizing multiple routers to send packets in parallel.
For better security because it is harder to hack a network protected by multiple levels of routers.
15.8
The goal of internetworking is universal service across
heterogeneous networks.
homogeneous networks.
ingenious networks.
children's television networks.
15.8
What must be done to acheive universal service?
Two of these answers.
Protocol software must differentiate between different frame formats and addressing schemes.
Routers must agree to forward information from a source on one network to a specified destination on another
Conversion of any protocol into IP.
15.9
Which of the following statements is not true?
The internet is a virtual network system because the communication system is not an abstraction.
With a virtual network, a combination of software and hardware provides the illusion of a uniform network system even though no such network exists.
Internet software provides the appearance of a single, seamless communication system to which many computers attach.
Internet protocol software hides the details of physical network connections.
15.9
Which of the following statements is not true?
The internet is a virtual network system because the communication system is not an abstraction
With a virtual network, a combination of software and hardware provides the illusion of a uniform network system even though no such network exists
Internet software provides the appearance of a single, seamless communication system to which many computers attach
Internet protocol software hides the details of physical network connections
15.9
An ARP request is sent by broadcast; an ARP reply is sent...
directly back.
by broadcast.
by e-mail
by SneakerNet(tm).
15.9
A Virtual Network System is
a non-exist system.
private addressing scheme.
a secured system.
a very popular system.
15.10
The most widely used suite of protocols for internetworking is:
The Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocols
The Advanced Research Projects Agency Protocols
The National Science Foundation Protocols
The Internet Primary Transfer Protocols
15.10
What was the first set of protocols developed for use in an internet?
TCP/IP
UDP
CMSA/CD
ARP
15.10
Which U.S. organization initially funded much of the development of TCP/IP?
Advanced Research Projects Agency.
Food and Drug Administration.
Lockheed Martin Aerospace.
Central Intelligence Agency.
15.11
When comparing the TCP/IP layering model to the ISO layering model, the 2 models differ in:
The ISO model does not include the Internet layer and the TCP/IP model does not include the Session layer.
The TCP/IP has more layers than the ISO model.
Both (a) and (b).
None of the above.
15.11
The main factor that has enabled the global Internet is?
TCP/IP protocol
Ethernet
Token ring technology
Byte stuffing
15.12
The TCP/IP layering model consists of how many layers?
5
4
7
8
15.12
What are the TCP/IP layers?
Application, Transport, Internet, Network Interface, Physical.
Same as ISO layers.
Application, Presentation, Session, Transport, Network, Data Link.
TCP/IP does not have layers.
15.12
How many layers in the TCP/IP Protocols?
5
6
7
4
15.13
A router does not need what layer for applicaions like file transfer?
Layer 5
Layer 4
Layer 2
Layer 1
15.13
In TCP/IP protocol software routers do not use protocols from all layers, in particular a router does not need layer ..
Application Layer(layer 5)
Transport Layer (layer 4)
Internet Layer (layer 3)
Data Link (layer 2)
15.13
Which of the following statements is correct regarding Host Computers and Routers?
Both hosts and routers need TCP/IP software.
hosts need TCP/IP software but routers do not.
routers need TCP/IP software but hosts do not.
neither hosts or routers need TCP/IP software.
16.2
The internet uses virtual addresses because
the internet uses multiple network technologies, each of which defines its own address format.
the internet is a virtual network.
a computer has no address unless the internet assigns it a virtual address.
virtual addresses are easier to apply a network mask to.
16.2
What address do users, application programs, and higher layers of protocol software use to communicate?
Abstract address
Physical Address
Ehternet Address
Can not Communicate
16.3
The current IP standar has:
a 32 bit number associated with each host
a 64 bit number associated with each host
4 numbers associated with each host
none of the above
16.3
The IP standard specifies that each host is assigned a unique 32-bit number known as the host's
Internet Protocol Address
TCP
ARP
TCP/ARP
16.3
An IP Address is represented using:
32 bits.
16 bits.
8 bits.
4 bits.
16.4
The IP address hierarchy guarantees which property(ies)
both a and b
Each computer is assigned a unique address.
Suffixes can be assigned locally without global coordination
Network number assignments must be coordinated globally.
16.4
Which statements about IP Address Hierarchy are NOT true.
Computers on different networks cannot have the same address syntax.
each computer is assigned a unique address.
the address prefix identifies the physical network to which the computer is attached.
each physical network in an internet is assigned a unique value known as a network number. That appears in the prefix of the address.

