How to prepare for the EXAMS   
The important lesson to remember when preparing for examinations is that they
don't happen accidentally - they take place through a schedule known, by and
large, months in advance. For the best results then, your preparation should
also be planned and scheduled equally early. It can then be in small doses:
Proven to be the most effective method of learning. Equally important, a longer
term preparation enables you to build up confidence that you know the subject-
Remember, convincing yourself that you know the subject is as important as
actually knowing it. Even when you have done your long term basic preparation
(or even if you have not), the last six to eight weeks before the exams is a
time for intensive preparation. The objectives and techniques here are different
from basic preparation, and this phase continues into the examination period.

Many well-prepared students are not able to exploit their preparation because of
faulty examination-day planning. The Do's and Don'ts for the day(s) of the
examination are a significant part of preparing for the exams. And finally,
when sitting with the question paper in front of you, you must draw upon
established examination techniques to be able to do full justice to the many
days of preparation you have put in. Let us consider these different phases of
preparing for the exams in greater detail.

LONG-TERM PREPARATION
This is the most subjective and nebulous phase in preparing for an examination.
The objective here is to acquire a base-level of mastery over all the subjects,
and to identity your strong and weak topics. How early this phase begins depends
upon the determination and calibre of the student, Ideally, it should be as
early as six to nine months ahead of the exams.

It's most difficult to lay down concrete techniques for this phase but the
following general guidelines can be suggested: This should be the only phase
where you attempt to "learn" or "revise". Subsequent phases should be for the
purpose of orienting your knowledge to the demands of the examination system,
and for practice. Thus, at the end of this phase, you should have a complete
overall knowledge of all topics.

To be able to do this, plan your time carefully. List the distinct topics in all
subjects at the very beginning, and divide the available time among them.
Remember to keep some time free (ideally, one-fifth of the days available) to go
over the tougher topics in greater detail. Timetable each day to cover several
subjects. This will break the monotony and also ensure that learning is in small
packets. Use fixed times every day. A habit of regularity (however abhorrent to
you otherwise) will help you during the exams.

Explicitly identify your strong and weak areas. Use any available extra time for
the weak areas. This identification will also help you during intensive
preparation. As in all other phases, work out your own mechanism for checking
whether you are spending your time effectively. Ask yourself questions to check
your understanding, as you go along.

Take some practical decisions as you proceed with your long-term preparation.
Expand or shrink the hours that you devote to study, depending on your pace.
If necessary, take hard decisions, such as topics you will give less attention
to or will completely ignore. Such decisions are not desirable, but they are
better than attempting to study everything when you simply don't have the time,
or feel that you just cannot cope with a topic. You should end this phase with
an overall knowledge of all topics. This general overview will help you sharpen
your abilities and build your confidence.

INTENSIVE PREPARATION
Examinations are an unnatural process. With very few exceptions, most
examinations require you to memorize packets of knowledge and present them in an
elegant form, through several pages of written material, within a limited time.
This is not the way knowledge is acquired or applied in real life. Most
educationalists agree that such examinations are unnatural, but believe that no
better or more efficient alternative is available.

The unnatural demands of the examination system require explicit preparation of
a different kind. Intensive preparation is that phase which converts overall
knowledge of a topic or area, to an examination ready state. Some crucial do's
and don'ts here, are : Choose your style of study. Don't discard your tested
methods of study believing that there is a "proper" way. For example, if you
like to study aloud then retain the habit. So also for the time of day when you
normally study. If you normally study at night then continue doing so. Those who
like to study in the morning, might like to remember that there is a minimum
time after waking up that is required for the mind to reach peak concentration.
Hence it is advisable that the first few hours of studying in the early morning
should not be for subjects which require maximum concentration, maths for example.

The environment around you, as you study, is important. Choose whatever is best
suited to you, but remember, a well-lighted spot without distractions aids
concentration. Use the same spot every day, However, while retaining your style
of study because it is comfortable to you, you have to make adjustments in your
techniques because you are in the phase of intensive preparation. Practice
writing. During examinations, students are expected to write much more and much
faster than they normally do. But many students concentrate only on reading and
lose touch with writing. Writing practice keeps the muscles of the hand in
readiness, and improves fluency of expression. For many reasons, it is best to
practice writing by answering mock question papers. This also gives you some
experience of what the Examination will be like. Use methods to develop your
memory. Since examinations require you to write from memory, students often
devise their own techniques of strengthening their memory.

One popular technique is to devise mnemonics - words built out of the first
letters of other words. It is easy to remember a mnemonic, and by association,
the words which are used to make it up. For example, LIDE-a word made out of
Long term preparation, Intensive preparation, examination Day preparation and
Examination technique, is a useful way to remember all the 4 phases that go into
examination preparation, "Julius Caesar, Rome's Best Speaker" is a way to
remember the rivers Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi, Beas and Sutlej. Don't bluff yourself.
It is easy to follow the ritual of study without actually studying. Sometimes
you do it unconsciously, particularly when you are tried but force yourself to
continue. One method to prevent this is to stop at regular intervals and jot
down, in point form, whatever you have studied. This will also reinforce your
memory development. Choose someone to study with. Find a partner or a group of
friends whom you can meet every few days. When you meet. spend your time
productively by setting yourselves a common piece of work to do, like answering
a practice question paper, When you finish, compare your answers. Everyone
benefits through this process because you supplement each others knowledge.
Also, study becomes more interesting and competitive. Retain your normal bodily
patterns. The great mistake many students make is to cut down on sleep. You will
gain nothing by putting your body to additional physical stress beyond the
mental stress that examination carry. This tendency has to be particularly
avoided once the examinations begin.

Most examinations last 2 or 3 weeks and you must ensure that your body is able
to withstand the stress. So don't stretch it more than you need to. The hours of
sleep that you normally require must be continued during your intensive
preparation. So also for normal physical exercise. In order to keep your body in
shape during the examination, you must continue with any exercise that you are
normally accustomed to. The important message in all this is that any deviation
in your normal physical pattern may upset your health and your capacity to cope
with stress. Choose a proper diet. This is particularly important once the
actual examination period begins. "Eat light but nourishing food" is the general
message. Your digestion is affected by tension and worry and hence it is
advisable to eat light food as a precaution. Intense mental concentration
consumes energy, so your diet should include energy-rich, nourishing things like
fruit and juice. Remember to include a reasonable amount of fibre in your diet
since your physical activity is likely to be lower than usual. Continue with the
proteins that you are normally accustomed to, but they should also be cooked
light. And finally, learn to relax. It is well known that it is impossible to
sustain peak levels of concentrations over long period of time. However intense
the worry and tension, it is important to take small breaks where you can relax
and refresh yourself. Your overall study is likely to improve and not suffer,
because of this. Choose whatever method of relaxation appeals to you, whether it
is listening to music or talking to friends or watching TV. As long as it does
not physically exhaust you and is not too time consuming.

PREPARATION FOR EXAMINATION DAY
Examination will continue for many days once they begin. Any preparation you do
during this time will be part of intensive preparation But There are some
special rules you must follow on the day of an exam or the day previous to it.
These will help you to make sure that the weeks of preparation that you have put
in don't go waste. DON'T keep your examination schedule a secret. Inform your
family of your schedule. In every major examination, there has been at least one
candidate who appeared in the afternoon for a paper conducted in the morning
session. You tend to get absorbed in study during these days and it is best that
other people help you if you are absent minded. Avoid straining your eyes the
day before the exams. You will probably not be able to stop preparing. But avoid
the extra strain that comes from watching too much TV or by reading lair into
the night. Avoid the temptation to buy new instruments. Many students believe
that they are shelving respect to an examination by buying new pens, new
geometry boxes etc. These are symptoms of nervous over-preparation which can
harm you greatly. There is nothing more avoidable than grappling with a new pen
or getting used to its flow during the exams, Get your sleep. More marks are
lost by not being able to put down what is known, to the best of your ability,
than by not knowing. Your abilities will decrease if your body is exhausted. Eat
before the examination.

Many tense students try to skip food. If you are not in tile mood for food,
something light like curds or fruit is the minimum that you should have. Sugar
is recommended, Get to the examination centre early. It is terrifying to be
caught in jam with a few minutes to spare before an exam. Go to the exam centre
with someone else. In case something unexpected should happen in you, like being
caught up in a traffic offense, your friends can end credibility to your urgency,
or call for help. Cool off before the exams. Let your mind freewheel. This will
be a pause and will refresh you when the exams begin. Don't panic if before the
exam begins you get a feeling that you know nothing or have forgotten everything.
This is a common experience. It is a fact that the mind tends to go blank just
before an exam, but this momentary phenomenon disappears once the exam begins.

EXAMINATION TECHNIQUE
Even when all your preparation is done and all precautions for the examination
day taken, it is still possible to perform poorly in the exam because of bad
examination technique. The following slogan should be your motto when dealing
with any question: "Answer the question, the whole question and nothing but the
question". "Answer the question" might seem an obvious piece of advice, but too
often is a question misunderstood and an entirely different question answered.
Such answers do not earn any marks because the examiner feels that the student
is trying to answer a question he does not know, with an answer that he does.
If anything, the overall impression about the student is lowered. "The whole
question" is to caution the student that often question consist of more than
one part. Check that you have answered everything the examiner has asked for.
"Nothing but the question" is a reminder that there is a tendency to extend an
answer on the part about which you know the most. This is considered irrelevant
by the examiner and earns no credit.

A student who indeed answers the question, the whole question and nothing but
the question is also likely to gain Imperceptibly through the overall impression
that he creates on the examiner. Some specific procedures which must be followed
in the examination hall are: Read instructions carefully and follow them
absolutely. Pay particular attention in the number of questions to be answered
and whether any are compulsory. Allocate your time before you begin. Time should
be allocated in proportion to the marks carried by different questions. Not just
equally among all the questions to be answered. Decide on the sequence of
questions to be answered. The first question should be the one which you can
answer most confidently. Answering the first question well will help to get you
into the rhythm and will soothe your nerves.

Do not spend more than your allocated time on a question. If it is not completed
in that time, leave some space and go on to another question. Come back in the
unfinished question if you have time at the end. More marks are obtained on two
half answered questions than on one completely answered question. More time
spent on one question will not necessarily increase the marks earned on that
question proportionately. Be careful of what you submit at the end. You will
have a mass of papers at the end. Remember to check that you have submitted all
that you are supposed to, and in the right order.

AFTER THE EXAMS
And finally, the exams come to an end- Stretch yourself just a little more
before you begin to enjoy your well-earned rest. Go over all your question
papers once more, and compare the answers you wrote with your books and with
your friends.

This will help you discover your mistakes (remember, learning doesn't end with
your exams). This will also give you a fair estimate of the marks you might
obtain, Having an estimate of marks is useful in two ways : you might like to
investigate if your score is far different from your estimate, also, it will
help you lo plan your future more realistically. Now that you've spent many
months in sharpening your concentration, utilities it while you wail for the
results. Acquire a marketable skill as an additional qualification. Learn a
universal skill, like computer software, or a foreign language. These are skills
that you will find useful in whatever you do. Also, you might never have the
time later to devote exclusively to such learning.

Before we end, remember that there are no prescription for guaranteed success in
exams. Whatever has been presented above is a collection of expert opinions on
the subject, proven to be useful in most cases. But every individual is Special,
and it is quite possible that something different works best in your case. Feel
free to experiment and modify the guidelines given above. But by and large,
following these suggestions will help you structure -your preparation and earn
the maximum credit for what you do know. For the years of work that you have put
in, you owe that to yourself.


