Writing Up Resume
1. Introduction
2. Basic Categories of a standard resume
Self Assessment
Career Exploration
Writing up Resume
3. Tips and tricks
4. Common blunders

Writing a resume

Resume is an introduction to you. It is s a summary of your skills, accomplishments, experiences and education, designed to capture a prospective employer's interest. The main objective of a resume should be clear to you: To secure the job!
A resume does not have to be a dry recitation of the names of the places you worked, followed by dull generalities about your responsibilities at each job. It is your main tool of finding a job for yourself. So try and make it interesting... see that it stands out of the lot. You need to keep a balance between things that "look" good and what you really are. At all places you should look at "how to properly portray what you have done"
It is true that finalizing one that seems fit is a difficult proposition. So don't feel foolish if it takes several drafts to prepare effectively.

Your resume should be a carefully tailored marketing tool that summarizes your employment qualifications for a pre-defined target audience. A good way to crystallize what you should be outing into your resume is to first understand the kind of job you are applying for - List on a sheet of paper all that you feel would be important for a person to excel in the field applied for. Then try to see how you can illustrate that you have those qualities. When constructing the resume, it is crucial that your strengths and key qualifications are summarized within the top half of the first page of the resume.

Basic categories of the standard resume:
Before you can write an effective resume, you must first be able to identify your skills and abilities as well as your special needs relating to the work environment, salary, geographic location, and people environment. This step will help you to develop a career objective:

1. Self-Assessment Exercise
o List at least 10 skills which you have developed in each of the following areas: education/work/internships or volunteer/extracurricular. Use action words to develop one-liner summaries.
o Circle each of the skills noted in part A that you would like to use in your employment. Are there other talents you possess that you would like to use on the job? If so, add them to the list of circled skills. Now rank these skills in order of those you most want to use.
o Make a list of what you consider to be five great accomplishments in your life. What personal qualities helped you reach each goal?

2. Career Exploration
Collecting information regarding the required skills and qualifications of occupations, which interest you, is an extremely important step. This information will help you decide if and how these requirements relate to your own skills and needs.

3. Writing the Resume
As you organize your resume, keep in mind the needs of the employer who will be reading it. Consider what he is looking for in a candidate and make it easy for the reader to pick out those skills by selecting appropriate categories, using underlining, boldfacing or capitalizing and presenting relevant experience and skill areas higher up on the page.
The following are descriptions of the basic categories of the standard resume:

a. Name, Address and Telephone: Your proper name (and no nick names!), mailing address, telephone and email address if present, should be there. If you have a campus address that does not apply during vacations or after graduation, you should present both college and permanent address, or someone who will know where to contact you at all times.
b. Objective: ` It serves as a focal point from which to review and analyze your resume. It should be brief, clearly stated, and consistent with the accomplishments and demonstrated skills as documented on your resume. If you are considering more than one professional goal, you should consider developing more than one resume, each presenting a different objective.
c. Education: most recent educational experience should be listed first. Include your degree, specialization, institutions attended, date of graduation, subsidiary subjects studied, and any special workshops, seminars, related courses or projects.
d. Work Experience: Many students have limited paid work experience, but have been involved in volunteer, internship, or similar work experiences. The important point to the employer is what your skills are and what you can do on the job. Be sure to include all significant work experience in reverse chronological order. You should include:
i. The title of your position
ii. Name of organization
iii. Location of work (city)
iv. Dates
You should describe your work responsibilities with an emphasis on achievements to communicate your skills. List the most important and related responsibilities first. Identify the most relevant work experiences and describe them fully. Be brief with the irrelevant experiences or omit them. It is sometimes useful to divide your work experience into two categories: Relevant Experience and Other Experience.

e. Interests: This is sometimes used to evaluate your "personality type". But go a little easy on this, if you have to include it at all, unless there is something really special or in some way relevant to the job you are applying for
f. Computer Knowledge: If using computers is a necessary skill for the job you are seeking, be sure to highlight your knowledge in this section
g. Activities, Honors and Leadership: These are also important categories to include. If the activities involved work responsibility, mention that. The employer is interested in the skills you have developed whether through volunteer or paid experiences. If you were elected to offices or committees, mention it. Recognition and demonstration of leadership roles are valuable
h. References: Be sure to ask individuals if they would be willing to be a reference for you prior to mentioning their names to prospective employers. This list should include name, title, employer, address, business and home telephone number. You may also state at the bottom of your resume "References furnished upon request. "

Tips:
1. Assemble the building blocks.
Whether you start with a blank screen or a piece of paper, the first step is to list your experience. Include summer and part-time jobs, as well as internships. List your responsibilities for each job and the skills you used. It is also helpful to give specific examples of on-the-job accomplishments. Next, make a list of other information that you may use, such as education, general skills, awards, affiliations and hobbies.

2. Think creatively.
Be creative (but truthful) about your credentials. If you produce short films with your friends, volunteer, or compete in triathlons, the implied attributes of creativity, responsibility and perseverance strengthen your position. Add these ideas to your list of resume information.

3. Write a draft.
Don't be discouraged by your first draft. It might not be worthy of a blue ribbon yet, but it will give you something to work with. Don't worry about length of the resume at this point. Editing comes later in the process.

4. Select a structure.
Once you have a draft, the best format may become obvious. Pick the one that works with your background, skills and experience.

5. Show it around.
Give a copy to two or three people. Ask them to read your resume, making note of any comments or suggestions. A parent, career counselor and a working professional, especially in your area of interest, are good candidates for the task.

6. Revise.
Take into account all of the corrections, comments, suggestions, and ideas you have gathered. Then write anew and improved version.

7. Translate.
Translate your draft into effective resume language. Use appropriate action verbs ("organized," "authored," "programmed") and keywords ("innovative," "communication skills," "detail-minded"). Write a summary of keywords that are appropriate for your resume.

8. Keep it brief.
Use concise language and descriptions, and keep it to one page. If you need more space, experiment with margins and layout - but be sure to follow guidelines if you are creating an electronic resume.

9. Tailor.
Create different resumes for different jobs or job types. Focus on your skills and experiences that are most relevant to the industry. You can also add an industry-specific "Objective." Try to include industry buzzwords where appropriate, but don't overdo it.

10. Proofread.
Typos are the kiss of death. Run a spelling check and proofread carefully. Then proofread some more, until it makes you crazy. After that, give copies to your friends, family and neighbors to proofread until it makes them crazy.

11. Keep it current.
Update, upgrade and upkeep your resume diligently. You never know when the opportunity of your dreams will present itself, so be prepared with a stellar resume in hand.

12. Sell yourself
Create a good first impression by highlighting skills and abilities appropriate to the position.

13. Use active language
Articulate marketable skills acquired through your positions.

14. Be consistent
Choose a pattern of spacing, an order of information presentation or a format of highlighting and be consistent throughout.

15. Present information in reverse chronological order
It should also be within categories. List education and work experiences starting with the most recent first.

16. Check for grammar
Misspellings and poorly constructed sentences communicate negative impressions about a candidate

17. Make it pretty. 
Think of your resume as a marketing document - its appearance is critical. It should be well organized, easy to read, neat and visually appealing. Be sure to use a laser printer and high-quality resume paper to achieve professional results. Choose high quality paper in white or off-white. If you can afford it, have the final version professionally printed. 

Common Resume Blunders
 Missing dates. 
 Vague language. 
 Typos. 
 Controversial hobbies/interests. 
 Misrepresentation/inaccurate statements.
Covering Letter
Your resume is a summary of your qualifications, but your cover letter is your sales pitch to the employer. If you've done your homework and written it well, it: 
 Properly introduces you. 
 Highlights your qualifications. 
 Shows that you know something about the company. 
 Demonstrates your written communication skills. 
 Convinces the employer to grant you an interview

A basic outline of a covering letter will be something like this: 
Your name: 
Your mailing address:
Your phone number: 
The date: 
Mr./Ms. A. Recipient:
Title:
Company name:
Company address: 
Dear Mr./Ms. Recipient:
Introduce yourself. The lead sentence should state the position you are pursuing (you can describe what you are looking for in general terms if this is an unsolicited letter). Also mention how you heard of the position or the company.
