A heartiest congrats
i am sending infy's paper . send me the paper of telco
there were 9 questions in all and 1 essay . rest of the ques 
cannot be reproduced 1 ques wasfrom old paper detecting a thief 
persons giving different details
essay topics were price at the cost of quality
IT in entertainment industry
byeee
Anil
1)   there are 111 players and every match is played with new 
ball
and in every match one player is out.
ans: 110
2)there are different types of ties 51 red ,31 blue and 5 green 
and 8
yellow and 6 black. tell me the minimum number of ties that should 
be
  chosen so that u get 2 ties of same colour
  ans: 6(bcoz 5 different colour ties)
3) a spider spins a web on window in such a manner that it spins 
the
same amout of area that is covered till the previous day( sum of 
the
  areas of previous days).
it takes 30 days to spin web for the complete window.
if 2 spiders spin
the web simultaneously then how many days will it take to cover 
the
whole window?
ans: 29 days
4) a person told his friend
   a) he has 3 children and product of their ages is 36.
   b) sum of their ages= his age(friend's age)
the friend said i cant guess as the information is insufficient.
then the person replied:
   c) the sons age is greater than that of 2 daughters by more 
than 1
find out the the children's age.
ans: 9,2,2 ( 6,3,2) check out the answer ur self...
5)at the end of first innings the wickets taken are shared among 
prasanna
verkataraghavan, and bedi.
  a) either bedi took 5 wickets and venkatak took 3W or wickets 
taken
by prasanna is greater than that of venkat by 1
  b) either bedi took half of the total wickets falllen or 1 
player
was runout.
c) sum of bedi's wickets and twice of prasanna's wickets is
equal to thrice of venkats by 1
ans :6,2,3
6) typical venn diagram question of class X level..of 6 marks...
rest out of cache............
tips:
do problems from summers.
start from the last.. as they are easy and they contain more
marks...
best of luck...
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Click a  to send an instant message to an online friend               = Online,  = Offline 
         - Choose Folder -[New Folder]     
    as attachmentinline text  Prev | Next | Inbox  

  Yahoo! Personals - Where millions of singles meet     
Address Book  Auctions  Autos  Briefcase  Calendar  Careers  Chat  Classifieds  Finance  Games  Geocities  Greetings  Groups  Kids  Mail  Maps  Member Directory  Messenger  Mobile  Movies  Music  My Yahoo!  News  PayDirect  People Search  Personals  Photos  Radio  Shopping  Sports  TV  Travel  Warehouse  Weather  Yellow Pages  more...  
 
Privacy Policy - Terms of Service - Guidelines 
Copyright  1994-2002 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. 

