
Index of Question Papers



    Polaris Software 


Polaris All India Talent Search Exam  (PATS)- 2003
The PATS test would cover Verbal, Aptitude, and Quantitative sections. The length of the Test will be 90 Minutes. The scoring will be done for each section and the marks aggregated to represent YOUR All India Rank. The best talent amongst you will then be called for a personal interview. ....

Some different comments of candidates from different parts of India:

Mumbai: The test consisted of 3 sections                                                                                         freshersworld.com 
1]  Analytical - Data sufficiency,  Arrangements, Data Analysis(graphs).. - 45 questions 
2]  Quantitative - Complete from RS Agarwal - All types (mostly percentages, profit and loss, mixtures)etc. 35 questions 
3]  Language - Easiest section - Find incorrect word, Fill in the blanks with correct form of word , Synonyms quite easy - anamoly, berate, synonymous etc. Questions on a passage etc.                      freshersworld.com 

Chennai: The test was an objective one with multiple choice answers, no negative marking. it consisted of 3 sections:-  Analytical, Quantitative and Verbal. There were 120 questions to be answered in 1 1/2 hrs. Due to time shortage, i had to guess a few answers but i was told thats natural. anyway, the paper was quite simple and based on IIM-CAT pattern. some questions were formulated to scare one like a 4D-analytical word problem and a few quantitative questions involving slightly tedious calculations. but on the whole, the test was really simple. the results are due in a week or so. thats it for now.

Bangalore: The Paper was not very difficult but was tricky.T he Verbal Section was really very interesting. Guys/Girls preparing for CAT can easily crack PATS provided they had prepared seriously. So people preparing for PATS pls do keep track of time because there were 120 q's and 90 minutes. In my batch everyone were 80% plus aggregate so i guess 80% was the cut off for the first round.S o if anyone with 80 plus have not got a call letter then pls be prepared you can get a call anytime.

                                                                                                   freshersworld.com 

Chennai: I have attended Polaris test in Chennai this sunday. It was like 120 questions in 90 min., out of which 45 was analytical, 35 was quantitative and the next 40 was english. First 2 sections only speed will do there is nothing to think and answer, if u are so quick in calculations and analysis, you have a good chance. English section, there u need to know basic grammars and usages and also how u define certain situations. For analytical and quantitative only experience will do. No -Ve marking...............

 

ALL THE BEST FOR THE GUYS WHO ARE GOING TO TAKE THE TEST. 

 
