Induslogic Difference between final, finalize and finally in JAVA 



Tech Interview Induslogic A Matrix where each intersection can contain a W (for water) or L 
(for land). Right now you are on a L. You can go in any N.E.W.S. direction. No diagonals. 
You have to count the number of continuously reacheable L's from your current position. 
Write a program for it. 



Tech Interview Induslogic There are 3 bulbs inside a room with opaque walls. 
There are 3 switches outside the room corresponding to each bulb. There is a door. 
You can enter the room only once. You can switch on/off the switches any number of times. 
Find which switch belong to which bulb 



HR Round Induslogic There is an island. You are on another land. There is a person on the island
 whom you have to save. The length of water body from each side is 10m. You have a ladders of 
only 9m. How will you save him? 



HR Interview Induslogic You are standing at a Y junction of a 
road where it gets split into ways. 1 goes to delhi, the other to Mumbai. At either side of the

 intersection there are 2 ppl A & B. A & B know each other. You know that 1 of them lies and 
the other speaks the truth but you dont know who says a lie and who speaks the truth.
 You want to goto Delhi. How will you find the way?


 
HR Interview Induslogic There is a flat table of any size. You can place a coin on them. 
The one who places the coin last wins the game. How will you ensure that you win the game? 




HR Round Induslogic Water Jug Problem (AI) 



HR Interview Induslogic How to arrange 24 balls in 6 rows so that each row has 5 balls?


 
HR Induslogic In minimum no. of comparisons identify overlapping range of dates, given 4 dates
 d1,d2,d3,d4 and d1<d2 & d3<d4? 



HR Induslogic cross product and join of 2 tables....no. of tuples in the resultant table. 
Wats the no. of tuples in the resultant table of join operation if join is performed on the 
primary key of both the tables? 



Tech Induslogic quick sort and merge sort with their time complexities 



Tech Induslogic if there is a list of infinite random integers with infinite range,
 then what data structure wud u use to count the no. of occurances of each integer in the list.


 
Tech Induslogic there are 4 people -A, B ,C, D and the time they take to ride to the other side
 of the lane are 1, 2, 5, 10 seconds respectively. they hv 2 bikes and all 4 gotta cross the 
lane. the constraints being that at most 2 people can ride the bike at a time and the slower 
rider rides the bike. wat's the minimum time they'll take to cross the lane 



HR Induslogic 
create a "malloc" function. how is the memory organized(data structure). 



Tech Induslogic there are 100 pills and 1 out of them is defected. the defected pill is lighter 
than the others. if ur friend needs to b given a pill now, how wud u pick 1 non-defective pill
 in only 1 weigh. 


HR Induslogic there are 10 jars each containing candies. only 1 jar contains defected candies
 which weigh 9gms each and the rest weigh 10 gms each. u havta pick out any no. of candies of
 the jars and in a single weigh u havta tell which jar contains the defected candies. 



HR Induslogic There are 3 baskets. 1 contains apples only, 1 contains oranges only and the 
3rd 1 contains a mix of apples and oranges. Each basket has a label on it which is incorrect 
as in if the basket contains only apples it mite have label of oranges. 
u hv to pick 1 fruit out of any 1 basket and correct all the labels.
 


HR Induslogic there are 9 people in a party and each person shakes hand with every other 
person. wat's the no. of handshakes.


 
HR Induslogic out of the list of all the people appearing for the test,
 choose 1 as TL, 2 as programmers and 1 as PL 
HR Induslogic Write a simple JAVA program to 
count the number 
