Infosys Sample Test For Campus RecruitmentInfosys Sample Test #6Home

Back To Infosys Page

1. From a vessel, 1/3rd of the liquid evaporates on the first day.
    On the second day 3/4th of the remaining liquid evaporates. 
    What fraction of the volume is present at the end of the second day.
Ans: 50%

2. An orange glass has orange juice and white glass has apple juice both of 
equal volumes.
    50ml of the orange juice is taken and poured into the apple juice.
    50ml from the white glass is poured into the orange glass. 
    Of the two quantities, the amount of apple juice in the orange glass and the 
amount of orange juice in the white glass,      which one is greater and by how 
much? 

Ans: The two quantities are equal

3. There is a 4 inch cube painted on all sides.
    This is cut down into of 1 inch cubes. 
    What is the no of cubes which have no pointed sides. 

Ans:  8

4. Sam and Mala have a conversation. 
  Sam says I am certainly not over 40 
  Mala says I am 38 and you are atleast 5 years older than me 
  Now Sam says you are atleast 39 
All the statements by the two are false. 
How old are they really? 

Ans: Mala = 38 yrs
        Sam  = 41 yrs.  

5. Ram Singh goes to his office in the city, every day from his suburban house.
    His driver Gangaram drops him at the railway station in the morning and 
picks him up in the evening. 
    Every evening Ram Singh reaches the station at 5 O' Clock.
    Gangaram also reaches at the same time.
    One day Ram Singh started early from his office and came to the station at 4 
O' Clock.
    Not wanting to wait for the car he starts walking home. Mangaram starts at 
normal time, picks him up on the way
    and takes him back house, half an hour early. 
How much time did Ram Singh walk? 

6. In a railway station, there are two trains going.
   One in the harbour line and one in the main line, each having a frequency of 
10 minutes.
   The main line service starts at 5 o'clock and the harbour line starts at 
5.02A.M. 
   A man goes to the station every day to catch the first train that comes. 
   What is the probability of the man catching the first train? 
Ans: 0.8

7. A family X went for a vacation.
    Unfortunately it rained for 13 days when they were there.
    But whenever it rained in the mornings, they had clear afternoons and vice 
versa.
    In all they enjoyed 11 mornings and 12 afternoons. 
    How many days did they stay there totally? 
Ans: 18

8. A survey was taken among 100 people to find their preference of watching T.V. 
programmes.
    There are 3 channels. Given the no of people who watch 
  at least channel 1 
  at least channel 2 
  at least channel 3 
  no channels at all 
  atleast channels 1and 3 
  atleast channels 1 and 2 
  atleast channels 2 and 3 
Find the no of people who watched all three. 

9. Albert and Fernandes have two leg swimming race.
      Both start from opposite ends of the pool.
      On the first leg, the boys pass each other at 18 m from the deep end of 
the pool.
      During the second leg they pass at 10 m from the shallow end of the pool. 
      Both go at constant speed but one of them is faster.
      Each boy rests for 4 seconds at the end of the first leg. 
     What is the length of the pool? 

10. Each alphabet stands for one digit in the following multiplication. 
      T H I S 
      x     I S
    ---------
    X F X X 
    X X U X 
------------
X X N X X 
------------
What is the maximum value T can take? 
Ans:  T max value = 4 
Back to top
