  
  Satyam Computers


1. A train has length of 108m, it is travelling at aspeed of 50km/hr. a second train with length of 1121m,
opposite direction to first train, passes the first train in 6 seconds. What is the speed of the second train?
options : a)40 b)55 c)65 d)non of these.

2. which no. comes next
7100, 13, 6, 4, 3, ...
Sorry, I don’t remember the options.
3. Magazine a is kept on b, b is above g, i is blow h 
etc... which was kept at the bottom?(easy) 

4. There are two mugs, a 7ltr mug, a 3 ltr mug. what
wud be the steps to fill 5ltr water in the 7 ltr
jug??
a) fill the 3 ltr mug, pour its 3 ltrs water into 7ltr mug
b) fill the 3 ltr mug, pour its 3 ltrs water into 7ltr mug
c) fill 3 ltr mug and pour 1 ltrs water into the 7 ltr mug
d) empty the 7 ltr mug, pour the remaining 2 ltrs water in 3ltrs jug, into the 7 ltr jug.
e) fill the 3 ltr mug, pour its 3 ltrs water into 7ltr mug
options: a) abced b)acbde c)abcde d)acbed
Ans: abcde 

5. I m chasing a thief. The thief has a head start of 10 miles over me. I have a speed 1 mile/hr greater
than the thief. my dog has a speed of 10km/hr. My dog runs to and fro between me and the thief.
How many miles does my dog run, before i catch the thief?
a)96 miles b)124 mile c) 140 miles d) 180miles
Ans: 96 miles(b'cos the dog can cover a maximum of
10km/hr * 10hr=100km by the time i catch the
thief. ie., about 96 or 94 miles.
(options i have given for this Q are correct.)

6. George J Summers, " The Great book of puzzles and teasers" pg49, Question name : The Widow.
For those who don’t have the book above: I m typing
the Question below.
(the following Q is complete and accurate.) 
Four women Anna, Beth, Cass, Dora and 3 men Earl, Fred, Gene play bridge, a card game for 4 players.
Condition: a)
The men and women consist of 3 married couples. an a widow.
Condition: b) 
The members of each married couple are never partners in a bridge game.
Condition: c)
No more than one married couple ever plays in the same bridge match.
Condition: d)
One night they played four bridge games in which the partners were as follows partners
Anna and Earl Vs Beth and Fred
Anna and Gene Vs Dora and Fred
Beth and Cass Vs Fred and Gene
Cass and Earl Vs Dora and Gene
Who is the widow ? 
Ans: Cass is the widow.

7. George J Summers, " The Great book of puzzles and
Teasers" pg148, Question name: The Murderer in the
Mansion.
(the following Q is complete and accurate.) 
The owner of the mansion has been murdered. The visitors to the mansion were Allen, Bixby, Crain. Condition: a)
The murderer was one of the three visitors, arrived at the mansion later than at least one of the other two visitors.
condition: b) 
A detective who was one of the three visitors arrived at the mansion earlier than at least one of the other
two visitors. condition: c)
the detective arrived at the mansion at midnight. condition: d)
nither Allen nr Bixby arrived at the mansion after midnight.
condition: e)
The earlier arriver of Bixby and Crane was not the detective.
condition: f)
The later arriver of Allen and Crain was not the murderer.
Who was the murderer.
Ans: Allen was the Detective and the Murderer (both).

9. (inaccurate Q) AT="xy" MAT="YSD" then vb="?" This
type of question.

10. Find next word in the series:
Redden:ample:somthing:something...
11. A Q on upstream Downstream.
12. A simple Q on a chess match.
13. A series of 3 figures, Question was to predict the next figure.
Sorry I donot remember all the Questions
 
 
