
19.6
How can a receiver preforming reassemblytell whether all fragments have arrived?
(a)the fragment that carries the final piece of data has an additional bit set in the
 header.
(b)the fragments are numbered from 1 to n, so when n is received you know that all the
 fragments have arrived.
(c)the router gives this information to the destination host.
(d)B and C of the above.
19.7
A fragment offset:
Tells the receiver how to order fragments within a given datagram.
Delays a fragment until others can catch up.
Breaks down the packet into different sizes.
All of the above.
19.7
If an underlying network drops packets:
an encapsulated datagram or fragment can be lost.
the lost fragment can be reconstructed from those already received.
the computer requests the lost fragment to be re-sent.
the receiving computer hangs because it is waiting for it to arrive.
19.7
How does IP software reassemble fragments that arrive out of order?
&#61623; By using IDENTIFICATION number and the IP source address in an incoming
 fragment to determent the datagram to which the fragment belongs and FRAGMENToffset
 to order fragments within a given datagram.
&#61623; Use sequencing
&#61623; Ignore out of order
&#61623; Retransmit.
19.7
How does IP software reassemble fragments that arrive out of order?
 By using IDENTIFICATION number and the IP source address in an incoming fragment to 
  determent the datagram to which the fragment  belongs and  FRAGMENToffset to  order 
  fragments within a given datagram.
 Use sequencing
 Ignore out of order
 Retransmit
19.8
Fragment loss involves
a network dropping packets
ip timer expires before all fragments arrive and fragments are dropped upon arrival
datagram not being able to be reassembled
all of the above
19.8
Fragment loss involves
a network dropping packets
ip timer expires before all fragments arrive and fragments are dropped upon arrival
datagram not being able to be reassembled
all of the above
19.8
IP uses a fragment reassembly timer. The main function of this is
to prevent the receiver from waiting forever for lost or delayed fragments
to count the number of fragments received
to exhaust memory
to ensure all fragments arrive
19.8
Which of the following statements is NOT true about Fragment Loss.
The receiver must save the fragments that have arrived if the timer expires before all
 fragments arrive.
The receiver starts a timer when the first fragment arrives from a given datagram.
The result of IP's reassembly timer is all-or-not.
There's no guarantee that a retransmitted datagram would be fragmented in the same way as
 the original.
19.9
When a router receives a subfragment of a fragment of a datagram it:
Handles it like a fragment.
Holds it until receives the other subfragments of the fragment and reassembles it.
Discards it.
Combines it with the next subfragment with the same destination address.
19.9
Fragmentation occurs where on an IPv4 network?
router
host
all of the above
none of the above
19.9
What is the maximum number for a fragment can be divided into smaller segments?
As many as possible, there is no limitation
Zero, because a fragment can not be divided anymore
Five times, because otherwise the data will be too small and can cause more transmission
 error
Only one more time
19.10
MTU stands for
Maximum Transmission Unit
Minimum Transmission Unit
Maximum Transfer Utility
Mail Transfer Unit
19.10
An MTU is best defined as An Internet connection can be de-multiplexed at such a host,
 therefore allowing greater bandwidth
Maximum Transmission Unit
Maine Technical University
Media Transfer Unit
Multi Telephone Upload
20.2
The success of the current version of IP is:
The protocol has accommodated changes in hardware technologies, heterogeneous networks
 and extremely large scale.
The protocol has accommodated changes in hardware technologies, heterogeneous networks 
and extremely small scale.
The protocol has accommodated changes in software technologies, heterogeneous networks
 and extremely large scale.
The protocol has accommodated changes in hardware technologies, homogeneous networks 
and extremely large scale.
20.2
The current version of IP has been ______ and has made it possible for the Internet 
to handle ______ networks.
Successful, heterogeneous
Unsuccessful, heterogeneous
Successful, homogeneous
Unsuccessful, homogeneous
20.2
Which of the following cannot be categorized as a success of IP4?
It allows cluster addressing.
It can accomodate dramatic changes in hardware technology.
It defines a uniform packet format, which handles heterogeneity.
It accomodats changes in extremely large scale.
20.3
What is the primary motivation to moving to using IPV6?
The current version of IP is running out of addresses for new computers, and a newer
 scheme with more address is required.
IPV6 allows clustering.
All the kids have it!
The latest Internet applications need a more sophisticated version of IP.
20.3
What is the primary movitation for defining a new version of IP?
Limited address space.
New audio/video internet applications.
New applications that require more complex routing capabilities.
The current version of IP just ain't hakin' it any more.
20.3
Why is a change needed in IP?
All of the above.
Limited address space.
New Internet applications need data delivered at regular intervales.
New applications require more complex addressing and routing capabilities.
20.4
Before IPv6 become the offical name, what was the name researchers used to call it?
IPng
IPv5
IPst
IPnt
20.4
The next generation IP is called IPv6 because:
IPv5 had been assigned to an experimental protocol known as ST.
This is the next logical version number as we currently using IPv5.
The first 5 proposals failed to meet the internet requirements.
non of the above.
20.4
Which of the following is the reason IPv6 is the official next release version of IP?
The next official version of IP, version 5 had been assigned to an experimental 
protocal known as ST
The amount of new features and functionality added to IP warranted a larger revision number.
Various companies were simultaneously working on the new standards using varying 
versioning numbers. IPv6 was the most common version and was thus adopted.
None of the above
20.5
section 20.5 Comparing to IPv4, the following is not the new feature of IPv6.
none of them.
Address size
Header Format
Extension
20.5
What are the main new features in Ipv6:
address Size, Header format, extension headers, support for audio adn video,
 extensible protocal
address size, transmission codes, transmission speed, it's not called IPv4 anymore
it's exactly the same as IPng
the main thing is the support for audio adn video and the new mechanism for high
 quality path through the network
20.5
Which of the following is not a new feature in IPv6?
IPv6 is designed to be connectionless.
IPv6 uses 128-bit addressing.
IPv6 has high-performance guarantees for streaming audio and video.
IPv6 is designed to be extensible.
20.6
IPv6 Base header contains less information but is:
2 times as large
3 times as large
4 times as large
2 times as small
20.6
What is the optional part of the IPv6 datgram format (for lack of a better question)
Extension header
Base header
Size of the Base header
Data Area
20.7
Which of the following is NOT true of the IPv6 Base Header Format?
Each address occupies 32 bits.
It is twice the size of the IPv4 Header.
It contains less information than the IPv4 Header.
The PAYLOAD LENGTH field corresponds to the IPv4 Header's TOTAL LENGTH field.
20.7
Which of the following statements is true about the IPv6 datagram header.
The IPv6 header contains fewer fields than the IPv4 datagram header.
The IPv6 header contains more fields than the IPv4 datagram header.
The IPv6 header contains the same amount of fields than the IPv4 datagram header.
The IPv6 datagram does not contain a header.
20.8
The value of the NEXT HEADER field of an IPv6 header specifies which one of the following?
The type of information that follows the header (i.e. data or another header)
The next hop address for the datagram.
The value of the fragment datagram which follows the current one.
The length of the data that follows (in number of octets).
20.8
In the IPv6 protocol, there may exist multiple headers. What information is NOT
 usually stored inside of an IPv6 header?
The number of headers.
The size of the header.
TheNEXT HEADER"field."
The type of data within the header.
20.8
Which of the following is true about IPv6 and the way it handles multiple headers?
A receiver uses the next header field in each header to determine what follows.
A receiver uses the options header field in each header to determine what follows.
A receiver uses the header len field in each header to determine what follows.
A receiver does not need to use anything to determine what follows.
20.8
###################################
A receiver uses the next header field in each header to determine what follows
A receiver uses the options header field in each header to determine what follows
A receiver uses the header len field in each header to determine what follows
######################
20.9
What is the following right about Fragmentation?
In IPv6, a sending host is responsible for fragmentation
Fragmentation part in IPv4 is the same fragmentation part in IPv6.
In IPv4, a sending host is responsible for fragmentation
none of the above is right.
20.9
When an IPv6 packet is fragmented:
Each fragment is smaller than the original packet
Each fragment is the same size as the original packet
Each fragment is larger than the original packet
No information about the fragment size is known
20.10
In comparison with IPv4, IPv6 headers:
include only required header fields.
include all required IPv4 field and optionaly contain other fields.
include all IPv4 and allocate space for new fields which have a specificnot set"value."
have a fixed header containing the subset of the fields in IPv4 that were commonly used 
and a small number of addition fields that were lacking in IPv4
20.10
One reason for the use of multiple headers in IPv6 is
to save space.
IPv6 doesn't use multiple headers.
to make the extension header shorter.
to add redundancy, making the protocol more robust.
20.10
IPv6 uses separate extention headers to:
Save space and to allow for the possibility of adding a new feature to the protocol.
Fully encapsulate the IPv4 header and its functionality.
Allow for the possibility of data corruption.
Replace missing footers in the new version.
20.11
The motivation for anycast addressing arises from:
a desire to allow replication of services
cluster addressing
needing a replacement to broadcasting
a need to send packets to any computer on the internet
20.11
anycast refers to:
The address corresponding to a set of computers that share a common address prefix
 in a single location
the address corresponding to a single computer
the address corresponding to a set of ocmputers at many locations
A datagram being delivered to each member of the set by IPv6
20.12
The optimization of IPv6 addressing allows the address of 69DC:0:0:0:0:0:0:B1 to be
 written as?
69DC::B1
69DC:0:B1
69DC:6-0:B1
69DC:::::::B1
20.12
Which of the following is a valid colon hexadecimal notation?
0:87DE:7777:4444:5555:6666:8888:0
0:87DE:7777:4444:5555:6666:8888:0
ABCD::EFGH
ABCD:0:0:FFFF:0:FFFF:::1234
20.12
To help reduce the number of characters used to write an address, designers of IPV6 
propose using a more compact form know as _______________?
Colon hexadecimal notation
Fixed hexadecimal notation
Compressed hexadecimal notation
bracket hexidecimal notation
20.13
What is the main reason IPv4 will be replaced?
Because the address space will soon be exhausted.
IPv4 didn't work well at all.
IPv4 was just a trial version and IPv5 will be the original.
IPv4 had lots of address space but didn't provide connectionless service.
20.13
How many bits are used to represent each IPv6 address?
128
64
32
1/2
20.13
The number of bits it takes to represent an IPv6 address is
128
64
32
16
21.2
when a datagram is received, the checksum is verified to ensure that the header
 arrived intact, to verify the checksum the receiver ...
recomputes the checksum including the value in the checksum field.
recomputes the checksum and compares it to the value in the checksum field.
recomuptes the checksum without the checksum feild and compares it to zero.
recomputes the checksum including the value in the checksum field and compares it to one
21.2
Best effort is:
doesn't gauarantee delivery
guarantees delivery
careless
is not used by TCP/IP
21.3
When does ICMP send a Time Exceeded message?
When TIME TO LIVE is zero
When TIME TO LIVE is 1
When TIME TO LVIE is -1
It depends on the system
21.3
If an ICMP error message causes an error what happens?
No error message is sent.
An ICMP error message is sent to the sender of the original error message.
An ICMP error message is sent to the receiver of the original error message.
The original error message is retransmitted.
21.3
3 examples of an Internet Contorl Message Protocol (ICMP) error message are:
Source Quench, Time Exceeded, and Redirect
Source Quench, Parameter Acceptance, and Frame Size Exceeded
Destination Unreachable, IPv6 Who's Over There, and Parameter Problem
Alternate Address, Return to Sender, and Not Valid Postage
21.4
If a datagram carrying an ICMP error message causes an error then
no error message is sent
an error message is sent
an error message is sent after 1 second
an error message is sent after 2 second
21.4
Where should an ICMP message be sent?
Back to the source of the datagram
To all routers adjacent to where the packet is now
Nowhere
to the Inter Canadian Mission for Presidency of the united states
21.4
To transport an ICMP error message it must be
Encapsulated into an IP datagram and then that is encapsulated in a frame for transmission.
Encapsulated directly into a frame for transmission.
Encapsulated into a ARP message and then that is encapsulated into a frame for transmission.
Is not Encapsulated at all and is just sent by itself.
21.5
The ICMP echo request and echo reply messeages are used by what?
Ping
Traceroute
Ping and traceroute
none of the above
21.5
Ping uses the ICMP
echo request and echo reply messages.
echo request.
information request.
information request and information reply.
21.5
When an echo request arrives, ICMP must...
send an echo reply
report it directly to the server
find out where it's coming from before it does anything else
fragment the message so that it understandable
21.6
When using ICMP to trace a route, which of the following ICMP messages is sent to
the computer tracing the route?
Time Exceeded.
Source Quench.
Unassigned.
Address Mask Request.
21.6
When using UDP, what kind of program on the destination macine the traceroute sends
 the UDP to?
Nonexistent
Existent
Application
Anyone
21.6
When using ICMP to trace a route, what type of ICMP message does the router send 
back to the source?
Time Exceeded.
Echo.
Echo Reply.
Source Quench
21.7
what is a path MTU?
the smallest MTU along a path from a source to a destination.
the sum of the MTU along a path from a source to a destination.
the largest MTU along a path from a source to a destination.
the number of MTU along a path from a source to a destination.
21.7
Which of the following statements is true?
None of the statements are true other than this one.
Fragmention of large dtatgrams increases the data flow rate.
Routers may need to fragment a datagram to make the datagram fit into gaps of data 
transfer on the network wire.
The path MTU refers to the largest MTU along a path from a source to a destination.
21.7
Define a path MTU.
The smallest MTU along a path from a source to a destination.
The largest MTU along a path from a source to a destination.
A complete path from source to destination which fragmentation is guarenteed not to
 take place.
A path from source to destination is fragmentation is guarenteed to occur.
21.8
In addition to ______ that is used to detect transmission errors, IP implementations
 include ______ known as Internet Control Message Protocol(ICMP).
a header checksum, an error reporting system
IPv6, a security system
CRC, a security system
CRC, a traceroute system
21.8
IP addresses are 32-bit numbers, dotted decimal notation expresses _____ -bit section 
of a 32-bit number as a decimal value and uses periods to seperate the sections.
8
16
4
2
21.8
In addition to a header checksum that is used to detect transmission errors, IP
 implementations include an error reporting system known as the _________.
ICMP
MTU
IETF
UDP
21.8
ICMP error messages can be used to test an internet to obtain ________ ?
information
routers
switches
dirty movies
22.2
What is the need for Reliable Transport:
The data must be delivered in exactly the same order that the data was sent, and 
there must be no loss or duplication.
The software doesn't need to guarantee prompt, reliable communication.
The data should be sent to efficiently transport data.
The programmer needs to transport data efficiently.
22.2
Who has the responsibility of ensuring that data is sent properly though a network?
The underlying internet software, that applications interact with
The IP rotocol
The ARP protocol
The Application Programmer
22.2
What must software for internet data transmission guarentee
prompt, reliable communication with no data loss
coffee and donuts for all!!!
prompt and reliable but some loss is okay
doesn't guarentee anything
22.3
In the TCP/IP suite what is used as the transport service?
PCT
TCP
IP
HTTP
22.3
What is the transport level protocol that provides reliability in the TCP/IP protocol suite?
Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)
Graceful Connection Shutdown (GCS)
Reliable Connection Startup (RCS)
Burger King Combo Value Meal (BKCVM)
22.4
Which of the following is the right answer to the service offered by TCP?
All of alternate answers listed below.
Connection orientation and point-to-point communication.
Complete reliability,full duplex communication and stream interface.
Reliable connection startup and graceful connection shutdown.
22.4
Which feature is not a service offered by TCP?
Address Resolution Protocol
Complete Reliability
Stream Interface
Graceful Connection Shutdown
22.4
Which feature is not a service offered by TCP?
Address Resolution Protocol
Complete Reliability
Stream Interface
Graceful Connection Shutdown
22.4
Which of the following are valid service features that TCP provides to Applications?
Reliable connection startup and Point-to-point communication
Full duplex communication and Complete reconnect reliability
Stream Interface and 4-Way handshake
none of the above
22.5
Which protocal provides a connection directly from an application on one computer to
 an application on a remote computer?
TCP
IP
SMTP
FTP
22.5
The connections provided by TCP are called virtual because
they are achieved in software
they are achieved in hardware
they are standardized
they use IP to transport ARP messages
22.5
TCP software is needed at ____ of a virtual connection.
each end
destination end
source end
each router
22.5
TCP software is needed at ____ of a virtual connection.
each end
destination end
source end
each router
22.6
Which protocol must be carefully designed to achieve reliability:
TCP
FTP
ARP
ICMP
22.6
Transport protocols like TCP must be carefully designed to achieve reliability. What 
are the two major problems that have to be overcome to be a reliable protocol?
Unreliable delivery by the underlying communications system and computer reboot.
Data getting corrupted during transmission and computer reboot.
Unreliable delivery by the underlying communications system and data getting corrupted
 during transmission.
Slow data rates and many different protocols.
22.6
A transport protocol like TCP must be carfully designed to achieve ----------?
Reliability
unreliability
maximum succses
comunication
22.7
1. The delay required for data to reach a destination and acknowledgement to return
 depends on traffic in the internet as well as:
(a) the distance to the destination
(b) TCP software is used at each end of a virtual connection.
(c) TCP software is used on intermediate routers
(d) the size of datagram
22.7
22.7 When TCP sends data, the sender compensates for packet loss by
implementing a retransmission scheme.
not caring, TCP provides connectionless data delivery.
resending on a different route.
implementing checksum on the data block.
22.7
What is one of the most important techniques that TCP uses to achieve reliability?
retransmission. (pg313)
Stream Interface.
Reliable Connection Startup.
Graceful Connection Shutdown.
22.8
Which protocol is best known to use adaptive retransmission?
TCP
ARP
UDP
ICQ
22.8
TCP's retransmission is ____.
adaptive
reproductive
usefull
delayed
22.8
Why did the designers working on TCP decide to have TCP's retransmission adaptive?
They realized that a fixed time out would not operate well for an internet
Static retransmission was not full operational at the time TCP was created.
adaptive retransmission was the only type of retransmission avaliable a the time
both b and c
22.9
How does TCP set the retransmission timeout?
TCP sets the retransmission timeout to be slightly longer than the mean round-trip delay.
TCP sets the retransmission timeout to be equal to the mean round-trip delay.
TCP sets the retransmission timeout to be slightly less than the mean round-trip delay.
TCP sets the retransmission timeout to be a fixed value.
22.9
How does TCP set the retransmission timeout?
TCP sets the retransmission timeout to be slightly longer than the mean round-trip delay.
TCP sets the retransmission timeout to be equal to the mean round-trip delay.
TCP sets the retransmission timeout to be slightly less than the mean round-trip delay.
TCP sets the retransmission timeout to be a fixed value.
22.9
What is the goal of the timing of a retransmission period set by TCP?
To wait long enough to determine that a packet was lost, without waiting longer than 
necessary.
To minimize the retransmission timeout as much as possible to continue a high 
transmission rate.
To maximize the retransmission timeout as much as possible to ensure that the data 
was lost and not simply taking a slow route.
None of the above.
22.9
TCP sets the retransmission timeout to be ______ the mean round-trip delay.
slightly longer than
double
slightly less than
equal to
22.10
Which mechanism does TCP use to control the flow of data?
window
buffer
3-way handshake
congestion control
22.10
TCP uses what to control the flow of data?
A window mechanism.
A remote control.
Fragment offseting.
A compiler.
22.10
What must a sender do when it receives a acknowledgment package advertising a zero window?
Stop sending until the reciever advertises a positive window.
send more data until a reciever advertises a positive window.
Discard the connection.
All of the above depending on condition.
22.11
TCP uses this method to guarantee that connections are established and terminated reliably
3 way handshaking
synchronization segments
finish segments
32bit sequence numbers
22.11
TCP uses this method to guarantee that connections are established and terminated reliably
3 way handshaking
synchronization segments
finish segments
32bit sequence numbers
22.11
What does TCP use to guarantee that connections are established?
3 way handshake.
2 way handshake.
1 way handshake.
No handshake, because TCP does not guarantee.
22.12
What kind of TCP scheme will help prevent congestion collapse?
&#61623; Congestion control
&#61623; Retransmit package
&#61623; Packet loss
&#61623; TCP double the amount of data being sent
22.12
. What kind of TCP scheme will help prevent congestion collapse?
 Congestion control
 Retransmit package
 Packet loss
 TCP double the amount of data being sent
22.12
Congestion Control in TCP works by:
Reducing the rate of transmission intitially, and then increasing it exponentially if 
successful.
Increasing the rate of transmission initially, and then reducing it exponentially if 
successful.
Reducing the rate of transmission exponentially until it receives an acknowledgement.
Waiting an arbitrary amount of time and retransmitting at the same rate.
22.12
TCP adapts to excessive internet congestion by
lowering the frequency of retransmission in a high congestion environment
increasing the frequency of retransmission in a high congestion environment
halting retransmission given any type of internet congestion
sequentially crashing all computers on the internet
22.13
Which of the following statements is NOT true about TCP Segment Format.
The CHECKSUM field contains a checksum that covers only TCP segment header.
The ACKNOWLEDGMENT NUMBER specifies the sequence number of the data that has been received.
The WINDOW specifies how much additional buffer space is available for more data.
The ACKNOWLEDGMENT NUMBER and WINDOW field refer to incoming data while the SEQUENCE 
NUMBER field refers to outgoing data.
22.13
TCP uses a single format for:
all of the above
messages carrying data
acknowledgements
messages that are part of the 3-way handshake used to create or terminate a connection
22.14
Each TCP segment travels in .... datagram.
IP (Internet Protocol)
ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol)
Ethernet protocol
TCP
22.14
What does TCP provied to application program?
With a reliable, flow-controlled, full-duplex, stream transport service.
With a reliabe, self-controlled, full-duplex, stream transport service.
With a reliable, flow-controlled, full-duplex, real time transport service.
None the above.
22.14
TCP provides
flow controlled, full duplex, with in order delivery and no duplication of data.
flow controlled, half duplex, with in order delivery and no duplication of data.
flow controlled, full duplex, with possibly out of order delivery and no duplication
 of data.
flow controlled, full duplex, with in order delivery and possibly duplication of data.


