
                       INFOSYS 1997.           TIME 1hr.
		       PAPER CODE Q/A.        marks 50. 
--------------------------------------------------------------
1)At 6'o clock clock ticks 6 times.  The time between first and
last ticks was 30sec.  How much time it takes at 12'o clock.

Ans. 66 sec.                 2 marks.

2)Three friends divided some bullets equally.  After all of them
shot 4 bullets the total no.of remaining bullets is equal to that of
one has after division.  Find the original number divided.

Ans. x          x       x
     x-4        x-4     x-4
     3x-12 = x
     x= 6
     ans is 18                  2 marks

3)A ship went on a voyage after 180 miles a plane statrted with 10 times
speed  that of the ship.  Find the distance when they meet from
starting point.

Ans.  180 + (x/10) = x
       x = 20
       ans is 180+20=200miles.             2 marks

4) Fill the empty slots.
  Three FOOTBALL teams are there. Given below the list of maches.

        played  won     lost    draw    Goals for       Goals against
A        2       2       *0      *0        *7                 1         
B        2       *0      *1       1        2                    4
C        2       *0      *1      *1        3                   7

the slots with stars are answers.   4 marks
BC drew with  2-2
A won on B by 2-0
a won on C by 5-1
( YOU HAVE TO FILL THE BLANKS AT APPROPRIATE STAR SYMBOLS.)`
5) There are 3 societies a,b,c.  a lent tractors to b and c as many
as they had.  After some time b gave as many tractors to a and c
as many as they have.  After sometime c did the same thing.
At the end of this transaction each one of them had 24.
Find the tractors each orginally had.

Ans a had 39, b had 21, c had 12,          4 marks

6) There N stations on a railroad. After adding x stations 46 additional
tickets have to be printed. Find N and X.

Ans. let N(N-1) = t;
         (N+x)(N+x-1)       = t+46;
         trail and error method   x=2  and N=11   4 marks

7)Given that April 1 is tuesday. a,b,c are 3 persons told that their
farewell party was on
  a  - may 8, thursday
  b  - may 10,tuesday
  c  - june 8, friday
Out of a,b,c one is only correct one of the regarding month,day,date.
Other told two correct and the third person told all wrong.What is
correct date,month,day.                 5 marks
(ans may be MAY 10 SUNDAY. check once again)
8)There are 4 parties.  df,gs,dl(depositloss),ew ran for a contest.
Anup,Sujit,John made the following statements regarding results.
Anup said either df or ew will definitely win
sujit said he is confident that df will not win
John said he is confident that neither ew nor dl will win
the result has come.  only one of the above three has made a correct
statement.  Who has made the correct statement and who has won
the contest.                    5 marks.
  (ans DL )
9)Five people a,b,c,d,e are related to each other.  Four of them make
one true statement each as follows.
i) b is my father's brother.       (ans. d said this)
ii)e is my mother-in-law.          (     b          )
iii)c is my son-in-law's brother.  (     e  )
iv)a is my brother's wife.          (c)

                                        10 marks.

10) All members of d are also members of a
    All   ''       e   ''                d
    all    ''      c    ''               both a and b
    not all ''     a  are members of d
    not all ''     d   ''            e
Some questions on these conditions.(5questions 5 marks)
11)
   boys are allowed to watch football at c.v.Raman auditorium subjected to
   conditions.
   i)the boy over age 16 can wear overcoat
   ii)no boy over age  15 can wear cap
   iii)to watch the football either he has to wear overcoat or cap
        or both
   iv) a boy with an umberella or above 16 or both cannot wear sweater.
   v)  boys must either not watch football or wear sweater.

   What is the appearence of the boy who is watching football.
   Try to solve this question................


YOU HAVE TO DO SOME ROUGH WORK FOR EACH QUESTION . IT WILL
  CARRY SOME GRACE MARKS.

                      OK!!!!!

 	three. I have answers for Q/A paper. For Q/C you
	should try for answers. 

                       INFOSYS 1997.           TIME 1hr.
		       PAPER CODE Q/A.        marks 50. 
--------------------------------------------------------------
1)At 6'o clock clock ticks 6 times.  The time between first and
last ticks was 30sec.  How much time it takes at 12'o clock.

Ans. 66 sec.                 2 marks.

2)Three friends divided some bullets equally.  After all of them
shot 4 bullets the total no.of remaining bullets is equal to that of
one has after division.  Find the original number divided.

Ans. x          x       x
     x-4        x-4     x-4
     3x-12 = x
     x= 6
     ans is 18                  2 marks

3)A ship went on a voyage after 180 miles a plane statrted with 10 times
speed  that of the ship.  Find the distance when they meet from
starting point.

Ans.  180 + (x/10) = x
       x = 20
       ans is 180+20=200miles.             2 marks

4) Fill the empty slots.
  Three FOOTBALL teams are there. Given below the list of maches.

        played  won     lost    draw    Goals for       Goals against
A        2       2       *0      *0        *7                 1         
B        2       *0      *1       1        2                    4
C        2       *0      *1      *1        3                   7

the slots with stars are answers.   4 marks
BC drew with  2-2
A won on B by 2-0
a won on C by 5-1
( YOU HAVE TO FILL THE BLANKS AT APPROPRIATE STAR SYMBOLS.)`
5) There are 3 societies a,b,c.  a lent tractors to b and c as many
as they had.  After some time b gave as many tractors to a and c
as many as they have.  After sometime c did the same thing.
At the end of this transaction each one of them had 24.
Find the tractors each orginally had.

Ans a had 39, b had 21, c had 12,          4 marks

6) There N stations on a railroad. After adding x stations 46 additional
tickets have to be printed. Find N and X.

Ans. let N(N-1) = t;
         (N+x)(N+x-1)       = t+46;
         trail and error method   x=2  and N=11   4 marks

7)Given that April 1 is tuesday. a,b,c are 3 persons told that their
farewell party was on
  a  - may 8, thursday
  b  - may 10,tuesday
  c  - june 8, friday
Out of a,b,c one is only correct one of the regarding month,day,date.
Other told two correct and the third person told all wrong.What is
correct date,month,day.                 5 marks
(ans may be MAY 10 SUNDAY. check once again)
8)There are 4 parties.  df,gs,dl(depositloss),ew ran for a contest.
Anup,Sujit,John made the following statements regarding results.
Anup said either df or ew will definitely win
sujit said he is confident that df will not win
John said he is confident that neither ew nor dl will win
the result has come.  only one of the above three has made a correct
statement.  Who has made the correct statement and who has won
the contest.                    5 marks.
  (ans DL )
9)Five people a,b,c,d,e are related to each other.  Four of them make
one true statement each as follows.
i) b is my father's brother.       (ans. d said this)
ii)e is my mother-in-law.          (     b          )
iii)c is my son-in-law's brother.  (     e          )
iv)a is my brother's wife.         (     c          )
who said each statement.
                                        10 marks.

10) All members of d are also members of a
    All   ''       e   ''                d
    all    ''      c    ''               both a and b
    not all ''     a  are members of d
    not all ''     d   ''            e
Some questions on these conditions.(5questions 5 marks)
11)
   boys are allowed to watch football at c.v.Raman auditorium subjected to
   conditions.
   i)the boy over age 16 can wear overcoat
   ii)no boy over age  15 can wear cap
   iii)to watch the football either he has to wear overcoat or cap
        or both
   iv) a boy with an umberella or above 16 or both cannot wear sweater.
   v)  boys must either not watch football or wear sweater.

   What is the appearence of the boy who is watching football.
   Try to solve this question................



                      ok!!!!!
                 infosys paper 1997.
		 paper code q/c.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

1)   be * be = acb
     a,b,c,e   are non zero numbers find b,e.
     ans)  b=1   e=9
2)   a,b,c,d,e  are having numerical values. there are some conditions
given
   a)  a=c  <===>  b!=e
   b) difference between a and c as same as difference between c and b 
      as same as difference between a and d
   c)  cd 
  then find a,b,c,d,e
3)   there are six cards in which it has two king cards. all cards are 
turned down and two cards are opened
  a) what is the possobility to get at least one king.
  b) what is the possibility to get two kings.
4) a person went to a shop and asked for change for 1.15paise.
but he said that he could not only give change for one rupee.
but also for 50p,25p,10p  and 5p. what were the coins he had 
   ans) 1-->50   4--->10p      1--->25p
5)  there are 3 nurses and they work altogether only once in a week.
no nurse  is called to work for 3 consecutive days.
  nurse 1 is off on tueseday,thursday and sunday.
  nurse 2 is off on saturday.
  nurse 3 is off on thursday,sunday.
  no two nurses are off more than once a week.
    find the day on which all the 3 nurses were on work.
6)  there are 5 persons a,b,c,d,e and each is wearing a block or white 
cap on his head. a person can see the caps of the remaining 4 but can't
see his own cap. a person wearing white says true and who wears block 
says false.
  i) a says i see 3 whites and 1 block
 ii) b says i see 4 blocks
iii) e says i see 4 whites
iiii) c says i see 3 blocks and 1 white.
    now find the caps weared by a,b,c,d and e
7) there are two women, kavitha and shamili and two males shyam, aravind
who are musicians. out of these four one is a pianist, one flutist,
violinist and drummer.
    i) across aravind beats pianist
   ii) across shyam is not a flutist
  iii) kavitha's left is a pianist
 iiii) shamili's left is not a drummer
 v)    flutist and drummer are married.
8) 1/3 ed of the contents of a container evaporated on the 1 st day.
   3/4 th of the remaining contents of the container evaporated the 
   second day. what part of the contents of the container are left at
   the end of the second day.
9) a man covered 28 steps in 30 seconds but he decided to move fast and 
covered 34 steps in 18 seconds. how many steps are there on the 
escalator when stationary.
10)  all fair skinned, rich, handsome, muscular, lean and employed are 
tall men
 1) all lean men are muscular.
 2) no fairskinned person who is not rich is handsome.
 3) some muscular men are handsome.
 4) all handsome are fairskinned.
 5) no person who is neither fair skinned nor muscular is enplyed.
 6)  we unable to recall this condition  and  question also incomplete.
------------------------------------------------------------------------




PART 1

1). A beggr collects cigarette stubs and makes one ful  cigarette 
with every 7 stubs.  Once he gets 49 stubs .  How many cigarettes 
can he smoke totally.

2). A soldiar looses his way in a thick jungle  at  random  walks 
from his camp but  mathematically  in  an  interestingg  fashion.  
First he walks one mile east then half mile to north.   Then  1/4 
mile to west, then 1/8 mile to south and so  on  making  a  loop. 
Finally hoe far he is from his camp and in which direction.

3). hoe 1000000000 can be written as a  product  of  two  factors 
neither of them containing zeros

4). Conversation between two mathematcians:
:wq  first : I have three childern. Thew pproduct of their ages is  36 
....  If you sum their ages . it is exactly same as  my  neighbour's 
door number on my left. The  sacond  mathematiciaan  verfies  the 
door number and says that the not sufficient  .  Then  the  first 
says " o.k one more clue is that my youngest is the youngest"
Immmediately the second mathematician answers . Can  you  aanswer 
the questoion asked by the first mathematician?
What are the childeren ages?        

5). Light glows for every 13 seconds .  How  many  times  did  it 
between 1:57:58 and 3:20:47 am

6). 500 men are  arranged in an array of 10 rows and 50 columns . 
ALL tallest among each row aare asked to   fall  out  .  And  the 
shortest among THEM is A. Similarly after resuming that to  their 
originaal podsitions that the shorteest  among  each  column  are 
asked to fall out. And the longest among them is B . Now  who  is 
taller among A and B ?

7). A person spending out 1/3 for cloths , 1/5 of the  remsaining 
for food and 1/4 of the remaining for travelles  is left with
Rs 100/- . How he had in the begining ?
    
8). there are six  boxes containing 5 , 7 , 14 , 16  ,  18  ,  29 
balls of either red or blue in colour. Some  boxes  contain  only 
red balls and others contain only blue . One sales man  sold  one 
box out of them and then he says " I have the same number of  red 
balls left out  as that of blue ". Which box is the one he  solds 
out  ?

9).  A  chain  is  broken  into  three  pieces  of  equal  lenths 
conttaining 3 links each. It is taken to a backsmith to join into 
a single continuous one . How many links are to  tobe  opened  to 
make it ?
    
10). Grass in lawn grows equally thickand in a uniform  rate.  It 
takes 24 days for 70 cows and 60 for 30 cows . How many cows  can 
eat away the same in 96 days.?
    
11). There is a certain four digit number whose fourth  digit  is 
twise the first digit.
   Third digit is three more than second digit.
   Sum of the first and fourth digits twise the third number.
   What was that  number ?

	If you qualify in the first part then you have to appear for 
the second i.e the following part.

Part 2.

1.  From  a  vessel  on  the  first  day,  1/3rd  of  the  liquid 
evaporates.  On the second day  3/4th  of  the  remaining  liquid 
evaporates.  what fraction of the volume is present at the end of 
the II day.  
2. an orange galss has orange juice.  and white glass  has  apple 
juice.  Bothe equal volume 50ml of the orange juice is taken  and 
poured into the apple juice.  50ml from the white glass is poured 
into the orange glass.  Of the  two  quantities,  the  amount  of 
apple juice in the orange glass and the amount of orange juice in 
the white glass, which one is greater and by how much?
3.  there is a 4 inch cube painted on all  sides.   this  is  cut 
into no of 1 inch cubes.  what is the no of cubes which  have  no 
pointed sides.
4. sam and mala have a conversation.  sam says i am vertainly not 
over 40.  mala says i am 38 and you are  atleast  5  years  older 
than me.  Now sam says you are atleast 39.  all the sattements by 
the two are false.  How hold are they realy.
5.  ram singh goes to his office in the city, every day from  his 
suburbun house.  his driver mangaram drops  him  at  the  railway 
station in the morning and picks him up in  the  evening.   Every 
evening ram singh reaches the station  at  5  o'clock.   mangaram 
also reaches at the same time.  one day  ramsingh  started  early 
from his office and came  to  the  station  at  4  o'clock.   not 
wanting to wait for the car he  starts  walking  home.   Mangaram 
starts at normal time, picks him up on the way and takes him back 
house, half an hour early.  how much time did ram singh walk.
6.  in a railway station, there are tow trains going.  One in the 
harbour line and one in the main line, each having a frequency of 
10 minutes.  the main line service  starts  at  5  o'clock.   the 
harbour line starts at 5.02a.m. a man goes to the  station  every 
day to catch the first train.  what is  the  probability  of  man 
catchinhg the first train
7.  some people went for vaction.  unfortunately it rained for 13 
days when they  were  there.   but  whenever  it  rained  in  the 
morning, they had clean afternood and vice versa.   In  all  they 
enjoyed  11 morning and 12 afternoons.  how many  days  did  they 
stay there totally
8. exalator problem repeat
9. a survey was taken among 100 people to firn  their  preference 
of watching t.v. programmes.  there are 3 channels.  given no  of 

people who watch
at least channel   1
"         "        2
"         "        3
no channels at all
atleast channels  1and 3
"     "           1 and 2
"        "        2 and 3
find the no of people who watched all three.
10. albert and fernandes they have two leg swimming  race.   both 
start from opposite and of the pool.  On the first leg, the  boys 
pass each other at 18 mt from the deep end of the  pool.   during 
the II leg they pass at 10 mt from the shallow end of  the  pool.  
Both go at const speed.  but one of them  is  faster.   each  boy 
rests for 4 sec to see at the end of the  i  leg.   what  is  the 
length of the pool.
11. T  H  I  S                Each  alphabet  stands  for  one 
        I S                   digit, what is the maximum value T 
--------------                can take
    X F X X
  X X U X
--------------
  X X N X X
--------------


1. an escalator is descending at constant speed.   A  walks  down 
and takes 50 steps to reach the bottom.  B runs down and takes 90 
steps in the same time as A takes 10 steps.  how many  steps  are 
visible when the escalator is not operating.
2. evvery day a cyclist meets a train at a  particular  crossing.  
the road is straignt before the crossing and both are  travelling 
in the same direction.  cyclist travels with a speed of 10  Kmph.  
One day the cyclist comes late by 25 min. and meets the train 5km 
before the crossing.  what is the seppd of the train.
3. five persons muckerjee, misra, iyer,  patil  and  sharma,  all 
take then first or middle names in the full names.  There  are  4 
persons having I or middle name of kumar, 3 persons with mohan, 2 
persons withdev and 1 anil.
--Either mukherjee and patil have a I or middle name  of  dev  or 
misra and iyer have their  I or middle name of dev
--of mukherkjee and misre, either both of them have  a  first  or 
middle name of mohan or neither have a first or  middle  name  of 
mohan
--either iyer of sharma has a I or middle name of kumar  hut  not 
both.
who has the I or middle name of anil
4. reading conprehension
5. a bird keeper has got Ppigeon, M mynas and  S  sparrows.   the 
keeper goes for lunch leaving his assistant to watch the birds.
a. suppose p=10, m=5, s=8 when the bird keeper  comes  back,  the 
assistant informs the x birds  have  escaped.   the  bird  keeper 
exclaims oh no! all my sparrows are gone.  how  many  birds  flew 
away.
   b. when the bird keeper come back, the assistand told him that 
x birds have escaped.  the keeper realised that atleast2 sparrows 
have escaped.  what is minimum no of birds that can escape.
6.  select from the five alternatives A,B,C,D,E
   AT THE end of each question ,two  conditions  will  be  given.  
the choices are to filled at follows.
a. if a definete conclusion can be drawn from condition 1
b. if a definete conclusion can be drawn from condition 2
c. if a definete conclusion can be drawn from condition 1 and 2
d. if a definete conclusion can be drawn from condition 1 or 2
e. no conclusion can be drawn using both conditions
1. person 1 says N<5
   person says n>5
     person 3 says 3N>20
     person 4 says 3n>10
    person 5 says N<8
whaT IS value of N
a) 1. no of persons who speak false being less than no of persons 
who tells the truth.
   2. person 2 is telling the truth.
b)  1. no of persong telling the truth  is  greater  than  no  of 
persons telling lies
    2. person 5 is telling the truth.
7.  there are N coins on a table.  there  are  two  players  A&B.  
you can take 1 or 2 coins at a time.  the person  who  takes  the 
last coin is the loser.  a always starts first
--1. if N=7
     a) A can always win by taking two coins in his first chance
     b) B can win only if A takes two coins in his first chance.
     c) B can always win by proper play
     d) none of the above
--2.  A can win by proper play if N is equal to 
 a) 13   b) 37  c) 22 d) 34   e) 48      
--3. B can win by proper play if N is equal to
a) 25   b)26    c) 32   d) 41  e) none
--4. if N<4, can A win by proper play always

8. Two turns have vertain pecular charcteristics.   One  of  them 
always lies on Monday, Wednesday, Friday.  \the other always lies 
on Tuesdays, thursdays and saturdays.  On the other days they tel 
the truth.  You are given a conversation.
    person A--  today is sunday my name is anil
    person B-- today is tuesday, my name is bill






answers for selected questions
2.  equal                          1. 150
3.  8                              2. 60 kmph
4. 37(M),41(S)                     3.  Mukherjee
5.   45 min.                       8. today is tuesday
6.   0.8
7.   18
11.   T max value = 4

            3. Anil kumar Mukherjee
               Kumar Misra dev
               Mohan iyer dev
               kumar patil mohan
               mohan sharma kumar




-


