TIPS FOR AN INTERVIEW (as provided by successful candidates)

Short Answers - Keep your answers short and to the point. 
Do not ramble. 
Always be honest and avoid negative statements. 
Wear your Best Suit - The first impressions of a candidate are lasting. It is better to be over-dressed than under-dressed. Your appearance will demonstrate that you are taking the initiative. (Go out of your way to make a good impression. Even if you never wear a suit to work, even if it is a production job, the interviewer will be pleased by your effort to impress.) 
Be on Time - It is better for you to be early and wait for your appointment time than to keep the interviewer waiting and wondering. If you miss your appointment time you may not get another. If a problem or emergency arises, and they do, call immediately and explain and offer to come in at another time, whenever is convenient for the interviewer. 
Body language - Sit up, look attentive, do not cross your arms or legs make eye contact. Interviewers rely on body language to determine your level of interest. 
Positive Attitude - Companies seek pleasant and positive people. So always present a positive and confident attitude. 
Bring extra copies of your resume - You may interview with a team of people, do not make them share one resume. 
Avoid smoking and drinking alcohol before and during an interview. If going to lunch with an interviewer, decline alcoholic beverages even if the interviewer orders a cocktail with their meal. If you are a smoker, abstain before and during the interview. Smoking can offend many people, even smoking before an interview can leave an odour, which may be offensive to the interviewer. 
Monetary Terms - Do not lead with money or benefit questions in the initial interview - If your main motivation is money it will probably turn off most hiring authorities. Convince them you can do the job and want the job before discussing money and benefits. Money, benefits and vacation will come up and can be discussed should the company wish to make you an offer. 
Sell yourself - If you don't no one else will. Use facts and figures to quantify your experience and ability. Tell them the things that will benefit the company if they hire you. 
Show interest in the job - If you act cool they may not realize that you want the job. Companies want someone who is interested and enthusiastic about the job and the company. Don't make the hiring authority guess if you want the job. 
Do not close any doors - No matter what you see or hear during the interview don't overreact. Obstacles may come up regarding money, relocation or other issues that can be resolved later if you leave the issue open. 
Getting an offer - If an offer is made to you during an interview never, reject it outright. Ask for time to think it over to consider money and the specific details of the offer. Always respond positively. If you let them know you want the job it will be a lot easier to negotiate items like salary later. 
When the Interview is over - Ask if there are any reservations about your ability to do the job. Deal with these now. Ask what is the next step in the interview process. If you like the job and want an offer now is the time to tell them. Do not assume they will know if you want the job or not. 
Follow-up - Be sure to send a note letting them know you appreciate the opportunity to interview and reiterating your interest in the position. Keep the note brief, and to the point







.........More on interviews........

Be Prepared
Know where the office is and how you are going to get there on time; getting lost will only add to your anxiety level.
Take time to choose appropriate attire (preferably the day before) and groom carefully -- appearances are important!
Learn about the organization; the employer will want to know why you want to work there and how you think you can contribute to the organization's overall goals. 
Identify the relevant skills and experience you can bring to the job.
Prepare two or three questions to ask the interviewer; avoid asking about benefits until you have been offered the job. 

Demonstrate Good Manners 
Arrive 5 to 10 minutes before your appointment time. 
Shake hands firmly with the interviewer when you are introduced and again when the interview concludes.
Do not smoke, chew gum or drink tea or coffee -- even if you are invited to do so. 
Maintain eye contact with the interviewer; otherwise, you will give the impression that you are disinterested or untrustworthy.
Try not to fidget; it will distract the interviewer from what you are saying. 
Allow the interviewer to take the lead; do not interrupt when she/he is talking. 
Answer questions clearly and concisely; do not ramble. 
Pause to construct a thoughtful answer; do not blurt out the first thing that comes into your mind. 
Attend to the interviewer's body language and other cues to sense when the interview is concluding; do not linger. 
Thank the interviewer for her/his time before leaving. 

Be Yourself
Convey your strengths and abilities without appearing boastful or conceited; do not exaggerate your qualifications.
Answer the questions honestly, rather than telling the interviewer what you think she/he wants to hear; you do not want to succeed in getting hired for a job for which you are not suited! 
Do not hesitate to show your (genuine) enthusiasm and engaging personality and . . . remember to smile. 

In General
Volunteer information only if it is positive and pertinent.
Watch for opportunities to sell your skills.
Avoid using negative terms. Substitute the words "challenge" or "opportunity" for the word problem. 
Never forget that your objective is to get a job offer. 

Dealing With Rejection
You're not alone. Everyone who is now successfully employed has, at one time or another, either lost a job or has been turned down for one. There are at least two ways to deal with rejection--either mope around complaining about your bad luck or to take charge of your life by adopting a positive attitude while realizing that feelings of stress and anxiety are normal , expected and need not be long lasting. 


Questions about you
On Your Career
What future career plans you have?
Why did you choose your particular career?
What qualifications do you have that make you feel you would be successful in your field? 
Do you prefer any specific geographic location? Why? Is this a good reason?
What do you think determines a person's progress in a good company?
What personal characteristics are necessary for success in your chosen field? 
Do you prefer working with others or by yourself? 
What kind of boss do you prefer? 
What do you know about opportunities in the field in which you are trained? 
What do you expect to be doing in five, ten or fifteen years? 
Do you prefer to work in a large or small city? 
Would you prefer to work for a large or a small company?
What are the disadvantages of your chosen field? 

On Your Education
In what school activities have you participated? Why? Which ones did you enjoy the most?
What courses did you like best? Least? Why? 
How did you spend your vacations while in high school? 
Do you feel you have received a good general training?
Do you think that your extra-curricular activities were worth the time that you devoted to them? Why?
Have you ever changed your major field of interest while studying? Why?
Do you feel you have done the best scholastic work of which you are capable?
How did you happen to go to college or vocational school?
Have you ever had any difficulty getting along with fellow students and teacher? 
Which of your school years was the most difficult? 
Did you enjoy going to school?
Do you consider your education valuable? Why? 

On Former Employment 
What jobs have you held? How were they obtained, and why did you leave? 
What do you think of your previous employer? 
What have you learned from some of the jobs you have held?
Can you get recommendations from previous employers?
What jobs have you enjoyed the most? The least? Why?
Have you ever trained anyone to do a job?
Did you train your replacement? 
On Your Application and the Company to Whom You Are Applying
Why do you think you might like to work for our company? 
What do you know about our company?
What interests you about our product or service? 

On Salary 
What are your ideas on salary?
What salary do you expect on this job?
What did you make on your last job?
Would you be willing to work for the minimum wage to start? 

On Your Personal Life
What types of books have you read?
Do you enjoy sports as a participant? As an observer?
What do you do to keep in good physical condition? 
Have you ever had any serious illness or injury? 

Self-Evaluation
Are you primarily interested in making money or do you feel that service to humanity is a satisfactory accomplishment? Can you take instructions without feeling upset? 
Do you like routine work?
Do you like regular hours? 
What is your major weakness? 
Define cooperation.
Will you fight to get ahead?
Do you demand attention? 
Have you an analytical mind?
Are you eager to please?
Is it an effort for you to be tolerant of persons with a background and interest different from your own?
What are your own special abilities? Strengths? 
Do you like to travel? 
How about overtime work? 
What have you done which shows initiative and willingness to work? 
What is success according to you? 






An Interview of a selected candidate with answers to some of the questions.

Q1) Tell about your project work(s).

Q2) Tell something about your family.
Ans.: Sir, I came from a family which gives higher priority to education. We are two.
Because of my parents active guidance we are pursuing higher studies. My sister studied MSc and she got married.

I studied B.tech in N.U

Q3) Why you are coming to Softwares?

Ans.: Well sir, What I have learned all these days definitely increased my technical skills. But at the same time also increased my ANALYTICAL, TROUBLE SHOOTING & PROBLEM SOLVING skills.

What ever may be the technical background ,above skills are necessary for S-W. Rapid growth, frequent updating & attractive compensation pay packages.

Q4) What is your ambition?

Q5) Where would you like to see yourself after 5 years?

Ans.: Sir, One year from now I would like to become a good software expert. Two years from now I would like to become a person who handles team work(i.e project leader). Five years from now I have to handle more than one project at a time.

Q6) Why this college / institute / university?

Q7) Your Positive points.

Q8) Your negative points.

Q9) If you don't get selected to this Job, then what?

Ans.: Sir, I am confident that I should definitely get a job in your organization. If the worst case will happen I will try to rectify my errors and once again I will try for your organization. If I failed again, I will search for another organization, which is more suitable for my potential.

Q10) Why this Company?
 




Here is another interview with some suggested tips for answers to them. The student, who appeared, has also provided the POSSIBLE ANSWERS for the interview.

Why are you the best person for the job?

I 've held a lot of positions like this one, and that experience will help me here."

"Because I am good at what I do."

"Our discussion here leads me to believe this is a good place to work."

"You need someone who can produce results, and my background and experience are proof of my ability. For example..."

If asked a point blank question such as: Are you creative? Are you analytical? Can you work under pressure…etc. What is the best way to answer?

Answer yes or no.

Answer yes and give a specific example.

Answer yes and give an explanation.

Tell us about yourself.

Outline personal data, hobbies, and interests.

Give an overview of your personality and work habits.

Give three specific examples of your personality traits and accomplishments.

What was your CGPA? Why is it low? (the question may be asked for percentage or CGPA as the case may be)

My CGPA is ----- basically because I had a lot of fun in college.

My CGPA is ----- because I held a full time job while in college, working my way through school. It is not reflective of my ability to do the job.

My CGPA is ------ which I don't think is too low, at least compared to my friends.

What are you looking for in a position?

"I'm looking for an opportunity to apply my skills and contribute to the growth of the company while helping create some advancement opportunities for myself."

"I'm looking for an organization that will appreciate my contributions and reward my efforts."

"I'm looking for a position that will allow me to make enough money to support my lifestyle. I am a hard worker and will give a concerted effort to earn the money I need."

What do you know about our organization?

"I've done a little homework and here is what I know about your organization...(cite examples)".

"Everything I've seen and heard makes me want to be a part of this organization. I understand your industry is ________ and your primary customer is __________. A particularly exciting part of your business appears to be _________ ."

"I know enough to say that this is an exciting place to work. It is fit for my career goals."

What is your weakness?

I get really frustrated with my co-workers when they whine about everything.

I don't "toot my own horn". I like to go in and get the job done and I don't dwell on who gets credit.

I don't think I have a weakness.

How would you characterize your work style?

I am a very driven person. I make a list of what needs to be done and then tackle the items until I've completed the job.

I show up whenever I'm scheduled to work.

I haven't held a job yet so I don't know what my work style will be.

What are your strengths?

"I am good at giving constructive criticism to my co-workers. This honesty is something I'm very proud of and have found essential to having open working relationships."

"I consider myself to be very consistent. I have proven myself to be someone who can be counted upon to do what is expected."

"I would have to chose between two skills. I am very proud of my determination and ability to get things done. At the same time, I am very proud of my analytical abilities and problem solving skills. These skills combine to give me a unique ability to solve problems and then implement the solutions."

How would co-workers describe you?

"They perceive me as a leader. The people who have worked with me learned great deal and accomplished in many cases more than they thought possible."

"My employees would tell you they got direction when they needed and the room to work when it was appropriate. I believe a measure of a good manager is how much he is able to get done through others."

"They perceive me as someone who cared about them personally and had high expectations. I get a great deal of satisfaction from helping others do their best. My former employees would highlight three of my priorities which are to build loyalty and a team environment, obtain results and develop people."

What did you like and dislike about college?

I didn't like the tremendous amount of homework some professors assigned us. I liked those professors who realized, I had a life outside of class.

I liked the opportunity to be involved on campus. It was a small campus that allowed students to take responsibility, organize events and be a part of the planning team. I can't really think of anything that I disliked, college was a wonderful experience.

I liked having Wednesdays off. I think the thing I disliked most was living in the dorms.

Are you willing to relocate?

No.

I'm open to opportunities within the company so if that involves relocation I would consider it.

I'd move, but I know your headquarters is in Alaska and that's too cold for me.

What are your short term goals?

"Short term, I just want a job."

"Bills are beginning to pile up. In the short run I need to find work so I can keep up with my obligations."

"Short-term, I'd like to find a position that is a good fit and where I can contribute to a company's bottom line. The position we are here to discuss today would appear to be such an opportunity. Could you tell me more about it?"

Where do you want to be in 5 years?

I haven't really thought that far ahead but I think I'd want your job.

"If selected I would hope to meet my goals and take advantage of opportunities to learn so I will be considered for other positions within the company. I hope to build my career with a company such as this one."

"I hope to start my own business."

Describe a situation you've encountered with a difficult customer.

In my last job I dealt with customers at a retail store. One customer wanted to return an item she had obviously bought several years ago, which was against store policy. I talked to her calmly and explained our policies and encouraged her to shop and I would exchange the item however I could not give a refund.

I rarely encounter a difficult customer because of my excellent customer service.

I had a customer once who claimed her steak was not cooked correctly....I picked up a knife and cut it open and explained that's the way it's supposed to be.

Before we go any further, what kind of money do you need to make?

"My salary requirements are negotiable. Your firm has a reputation of compensating employees fairly and I trust you would do the same in my case. I am very interested in finding the right opportunity and will be open to any fair offer when I do so."

"Money is not very important to me. I need to be able to pay the bills but the work environment is far more important to me."
 

Q1: What are your greatest strengths ? 

A1: Patience : The single most factor that can affect your performance. Pateience is one of the biggest strengths that a person can have. Pateience covers a lot of other things as well like a patient person never gets too excited about anything, always waits to do the right things at the right time. 

Flexibility :  This strength of yours can be a big boon to the company as if you are flexible , you can adapt yourself in a lot of different areas of work as well as different locations. 
  
  
  

Q2: What about your weaknesses ? 

A2 : Weaknesses are of two kind, first are your personal weakness that has got nothing to do with the company. It can't affect your performance in the company. eg : good food, watching a lot of new movies etc. 
  
	 Second weakness are those which can affect your professional life. Such weaknesses include impatience, lack of group work etc. 

      To answer this question, the best way is either to say your personal weaklnesses which have got nothing to do with the your job. or you can say a weakness which will be a boon to the company. you can say that you get too  much involved in your work so you are not able to give time to others. This can be a weaknes for you but for the Company it is an advantage. 
  
  
  
  

Q3 : Initial salary : i am sure that your co. would not disapppint a new joinee. I will look forward to application of what i have learned in theory. it is my priority this moment of time. I want to learn first and then earn. 
  
  
  

Q4 : If you are fired later, how will you feel ? 

Honest answer : I would consider myself unlucky. 
  
  

Q5 : If you don't get a job today, what will you feel ? 

I would learn from it and i would try to find out that why my best effort didn't fetch me a return . where did i go wrong in my preperations. i may even come to you after the results have been declared and ask you where i did make a mistake. i would learn from it for sure so that next time i didn't get to face a similar situation. 
  
  
  

Q6: If you have offer from two good cos. , which one will you opt and why ? 

I haven't thought about it. since we have the option to sit in a co. we prefer, i am sitting here so i naturally prefer it over others. if i have to face such a situation i'll be committed to the first co. that appoints me. 


My Strengths

Ø	Work Better Under Stress
Ø	Adaptable
Ø	Patience 
Ø	Fast Learner
Ø	Team Person
hard working
