hello frend its vikas here frm MNNIT allahabad,
i m sending the new gen paper.  u pls send me  L&T (ELECTRICAL & mech.) paper .as soon as possible.

NEW-GEN softwareÿ is recruiting freshers.Salary is Rs.8000(during 
the period of 6 months which is the training period),after which based on 
ur performance it will be increased.U have a written test followed by a 
interview.
The written test consist of many sections.The duration is around one 
and a half to two hours.U will be tested on technical,aptitude(quants and 
anals) and a psychometry test.All the questions r objective type.
Technical test consist of 40 questions,the questions asked r diversified 
like( c,c++,networks,dbms,operating system).
Aptitude test consist of 20 questions(10 quantitive and 10 analytical).
Psychometry test consist of nearly 60 questions.Answering these 
questions depends on one's mind.so be straightforward in answering 
these questions.dont guess.
The interview panel consist of 3 persons(1 -HR,2-Technical persons).
HRÿ questions r generally about ur background.
Technical questions r really simple.
I have attached for u peoples , the questions asked in both the written 
test and interview.

They will ask u from which consultancy u come from.u can tell my 
name(R.Senthil Nathan).since i told my friend's name (his name is 
venkat) and wrote the test.so if they ask u its 
better u tell my name or my friend's name 
The exact location of the company is
 NEW GEN Software
G.R Complex annexe
 Annasalai
 Mountroad
 Chennai. 
To know more about the company u can contact the below address
NEW GEN
Flat E, Quanta Zen, 
No. 2ÿ Dr. Thomas Road,
T. Nagar, Chennai - 600017,
Tamilnadu.
Contact Person- Mr. Manish Jaiswal 
Tel: +91 - 44 - 24332727/24323153 
eagerly waiting for ur reply.
ÿ
bye
urs friendly
Written Test

Technical Test

1. 
int x,y;
x = 3 & 5 ;
y = 7 & 2 ;
printf("%d %d",x,y);
2.
char *s[]="Hello world";
*s++;
printf("%s",s);

3.
char *s[]="Hello world";
printf("%c",(*(*(*(s)+4))));

4.
enum var ={sun,mon,tue,wed,thu=1,fri} frank;
frank=much;
printf("%d %d",frank,frank==fri);
 
some more questions on c,which will be mainly on pointers.
5.
The port no of telnet in tcp/ip protocol ans:21 
6.
windows 95 follows
a.pre-emptive multitasking
b.non-preemptive multitasking
other two choices i dont know.so better u find out.
7.
from databases questions like
if u delete the rows from master table which the child table is accesing
what will happen?
a.whether u will delete all the corresponding rows from child table
b.whether u will delete all the columns from child table.

so better u be go through in referential integrity .
8.
SPOOL 
a.single pheriperal operation done online.
b.simultaneous pheriperal operation done offline.
c.simultaneous pheriperal operation done online.
d.single pheriperal operation done offline.
9.
UML -Unified Modelling Language.
10.
Which of the following best represent the deadlock situation

a.mutual exclusion,circular wait. 
b.synchronisation.

11.
How many times does the loop execute
for(i=1,i<=5,i++)
for(j=1,j<=4,j++)
a=a+b;

a.10
b.12
c.20
d.15

12. 
Static functions 
a.cant be declared in a class
b.cant access static variable.
c.similar to the member function of a class
d.a & c.
 
other questions r easy.even if u dont prepare and go ,i think one can
attend nearly 30 to 35 questions.

Aptitude Test
I can tell u that u can go through R.S.Aggarwal's(Quantitative Aptitude)
for this sections.
Quantitative Test -10 Questions

1.clock & time
if a clock runs 5 minutes slowly.after how many days does it show the
correc time
a.5 days b.6 days c.7 days d.8.5 ays

2.venn diagram
(12 study french,10 study english,9 study german,7 study both eng &
fren,etc...)
3.Work based problem
(like 5 women can finish a work in 36 days.after some days a women
is replaced by a man and a boy.
a man is twice faster than women and slow than boy .find out how
many days does it take to complete the work)

other problems r easy.

Analytical Test - 10 Questions
5 questions based on seating arrangement and another 5 questions r based
on colours.

Psychometry Test

As told before , answering this sections depend upon one's mind.so be
free in answering these questions.
 
Interview questions
 
First they will ask u which is ur favourite subject.based on ur choice ,they
will ask u questions related from ur area.

if u tell c & c++,mainly they will be asking u from c++.

1.tell me the characteristics of c++ concept. 
2.define polymorphism
3.two types of polymorphism.
4.they will tell u to write the syntax for any declaration like
how virtual functions r declared
how static functions r declared
so better u go through all the concept in c++.
as they r doing ERP projects.they r mainly interested in JAVA.so if u know
JAVA ,tell them yes ,else say no.coz sometimes it will make u tense,if u dont
know the language.
other than these.the repeatedly asked questions to everyone r,

1.define socket.
2.different types of constraint in dbms
3.different type of sorting methods.which is the best sorting method.their
time complexity with the base(eg,log base 2).
4.what u mean by a CHECK constraint.
 
interview is a cakewalk.so all the best to all of u. 
 
 
NEWGEN PAPER
 
Hi friends,
  in the following lines i m just writing format of the paper.
 there were 2 section of paper..in one 50 qs and in another section 10 qs.u will have to complete this paper in 30 mins, so be fast .
  in first section there were some computer awareness type of qs .
First section contains OS,Datastructure and database,Networking qs.
in DBMS u need to go through the Normal forms and some basic things of DBMS.In Networking some qs on http protocol.in OS they asked abt sceduling of WINDOWS 2000.All 50 qs were based on only basic things .
   in second section there were 10 qs based on C programming so for this part u just go through the Exploring C and clear ur Fundamental abt pointers and arrays and do some excercise on some qs which r given in Exploring C .Overall paper was so so ,not so hard ,not so easy ..
   
 and i m very sorry bcos i don't remember the qs of the papers ..

interview :->
  in interview they ask abt datastructures only ,here some qs , they asked me..
1.write down the code for reversing the Linked list .
2.'''''''''''''''''   for inorder traversal.
3.determine the complexity of BST .and he gave me one prog to determine  its complexity  
4.wat is AVL tree.
5.they asked one puzzle also . 
      there are 3 bulbs in a room , and 3 switches corresponding to each outside the room , u r allowed to go outside only once and then u have to findout that which switch is of which bulb .
     Overall interview was of 1 hour , abt half an hour HR interview ..
 ok gud luck for u ....

