Tata Consultancy Services Home
 


Sample Test Papers

Interview

Profile of the company 

  

Written Test 
Tata Consultancy Services conducts a multiple choice test.The test consists of four sections.The first section is the Verbal Section with 15 questions to be attempted in 6 minutes.The questions deal with words and their synonyms. You need a high level of vocabulary to do well in this part. The second section is a Quantitive aptitude section with 15 questions to be answered in 10 minutes.The questions deal with basic mathematics such as multiplication, percentages etc.This is the easiest among all the sections (try not to make silly mistakes). The third section is the Reading Comprehension section with 50 minutes to answer 60 questions.The fourth section is a 30 minutes Psychometeric Test with 150 questions.These questions are generally simple personality based questions checking your ability to answer consistently.Usually only a Yes/No type answer is required for these questions.

The following sets of questions are available: 

 Sample Test1   Sample Test2

 Candidates clearing the test and the interview are further required to clear a paper based on C and COBOL. This paper consists of 50 questions and is MCQ format.

Click here to see the sample C test.

Back To The Top

 

Interview 
The test is followed by a Technical and a HR interview.The technical interview is highly specialised and covers almost all subjects you have done in your curriculum. However one is required to name his/her favorite subject on which most of the interview is focussed. For Computer Engineers C, Operating Systems, DBMS, Microprocessors are mostly focussed upon. Electronics Engineers can be grilled on DCLD, Microprocessors and Communications.For details on the frequently asked questions please refer to our Interview section.

The HR interview which follows the technical interview is very general. The Hr interview is also important. Mostly questions are asked to test your temperament. You maybe asked your opinion on a variety of current affair topics. We were asked about Homosexuality, Lesbianism(the movie FIRE), Kashmir, Genome Project etc. In some cases questions regarding the company are asked. For details on the other frequently asked questions please refer to our Interview section.

 Back To The Top

  

Profile 
Tata Consultancy Services started in 1968. Mr.F.C Kohli who is presently the Deputy Chairman was entrusted with the job of steering TCS. The early days marked TCS resonsibility in managing the punch card operations of Tisco. The company, which was into management consultancy from day one, soon felt the need to provide solutions to its clients as well.TCS was the first Indian company to make forays into the US market with clients ranging from IBM, American Express, Sega etc. TCS is presently the top software services firm in Asia.

During the Y2K buildup, TCS had setup a Y2K factory in Chennai as a short-term strategy. Now, with E-business being the buzzword, the factory is developing solutions for the dotcom industries. Today, about 90 percent of TCS' revenue comes from consulting, while the rest from products. TCS has great training facilities. In addition to training around 5 percent of the revenue is spent upon its R&D centres like the Tata Research Design and Development Centre at Pune, along with a host of other centres at Mumbai and Hyderabad.

It benchmarked its quality standing, invested heavily in software engineering practices and built intellectual property-in terms of patents,code and branded products. At the same time, it expanded its relationships with technology partners and organisations, increased linkages with academic institutions and incubated technologies and ideas of people within TCS and outside. TCS has already patented 12 E-Commerce solution product packages and has filed six more applications for patent licences.

Over $25 million were spent on enhancing hardware and software infrastructure. The company now has 72 offices worldwide. As many as seven centres were assessed at SEI CMM Level 5 last year(3.4 mistakes in a million oppurtunities).These include Chennai, Mumbai, Bangalore, Calcutta, Hyderabad and Lucknow.Several business and R&D relationship with global firms like IBM, General Electric, Unigraphics Solutions have been made.

The present CEO of the company is Mr.S.Ramadorai. The companies strength is about 14,000.

For more information about this company visit their homesite at www.tcs.com

  Back To The Top
Tata Consultancy Services Sample Test#1 Home
 

Back To TCS Page


NOTE:EACH OF THE QUESTIONS GIVEN BELOW APPEAR AS MULTIPLE CHOICE QUESTIONS IN THE ACTUAL PAPER.

VERBAL SECTION

Directions for questions 1-15:Find the synonyms of the following words

1. Merry

Ans. Gay,Happy


2. Alienate

Ans. Estrange 


3. Solicit

Ans. To request 


4.Heap

Ans. To pile 


5.Cargo

Ans. Freight 


6.Momentary

Ans. Transient 


7. Volume

Ans.Quantity 


8.Veer

Ans.Diverge 


9.Dispel

Ans.Dissipate 


10.Admonish

Ans.Cautious 


11.Meager

Ans.Scanty 


12.Latitude

Ans.Scope 


13.Latent

Ans.Potential 


14.Covet

Ans.Crave 


15.Discretion

Ans. Prudence 

 

QUANTITATIVE SECTION

1. If two pencils cost 8 cents, then how much do 5 pencils cost?

Ans. 20 cents


2. Some work is done by two people in 24 minutes. One of them can do this work alone in 40 minutes. How much time does the second person take to do the same work ?

Ans. 60 minutes 


3. A car is filled with four and half gallons of fuel for a round trip.If the amount of fuel taken while going is 1/4 more than the amount taken for coming, what is the amount of fuel consumed while coming back?

Ans.2 gallons


4. The lowest temperature in the night in a city A is 1/3 more than 1/2 the highest during the day. Sum of the lowest temperature and the highest temperature is 100 degrees. Then what is the low temp? 

Ans.40 degrees 


5. Javagal, who decided to go to weekened trip should not exceed 8 hours driving in a day. The average speed of forward journey is 40 miles/hr.Due to traffic on sundays, the return journey's average speed is 30 m/h. How far he can select a picnic spot?

a) 120 miles
b) between 120 and 140 miles 
c) 160 miles 

Ans. 120 miles 


6. A salesperson by mistake multiplied a number and got the answer as 3, instead of dividing the number by 3.What is the answer he should have actually got? 

Ans. 3


7. A building with height D shadow upto G. What is the height of a neighbouring building with a shadow of C feet.

Ans. (C*D)/G


8. A person was fined for exceeding the speed limit by 10 mph. Another person was also fined for exceeding the same speed limit by twice the same. If the second person was travelling at a speed of 35 mph, find the speed limit.

Ans. 15 mph 


9. A bus started from bustand at 8.00am, and after staying for 30 minutes at a destination, it returned back to the busstand. The destination is 27 miles from the busstand. The speed of the bus is 18mph. During the return journey bus travels with 50% faster speed.At what time does it return to the busstand? 

Ans. 11.00am 


10. In a mixture, R is 2 parts and S is 1 part. In order to make S to 25% of the mixture, how much of R is to be added? 

Ans.One part of R 


11. Wind flows 160 miles in 330 min, for travelling 80 miles how much time does it require? 

Ans. 2 hrs 45 mins


12. With a 4/5 full tank a vehicle can travel 12 miles, how far can it travel with a 1/3 full tank 

Ans. 5 miles 


13. There are two trees in a lawn. One grows at a rate 3/5 of the other in 4 years. If the total growth of trees is 8 ft. What is the height of the smaller tree after 2 years 

Ans. 1 1/2 feet


14. Refer to the figure below.A ship started from P and moves at a speed of I miles per hour and another ship starts from L and moving with H miles per hour simultaneously.Where do the two ships meet? 

||---g---||---h---||---i---||---j---||---k---||---l---||

PG H I J K L are the various stops in between denoted by || . The values g, h, i, j, k, l denote the distance between the ports.

Ans. Between I and J, closer to J


15. If A is travelling at 72 km per hour on a highway. B is travelling at a speed of 25 meters per second on a highway. What is the difference in their speeds in m/sec.

Ans. 1 m/sec

 

CRITICAL REASONING SECTION

The critical reasoning section consists of some passages followed by 4 to 7 questions per passage. The questions are such that they require ability to read fast and comprehend. The questions asked in this section have three choices TRUE, FALSE, CAN'T SAY. Some examples of questions are given below. Please note that these passages are not the exact passages asked. The passages used a good deal of difficult words which have been removed in this reproduction. Also the passages appearing in the actual paper are much lengthier.

Directions: Answer the questions given below the passage or statement as true, false or can't say.

PASSAGE A: My father has no brothers. He has three sisters who has two childs each.

Answer 1-5 based on the passage A

1.My grandfather has two sons .

Ans. False   


2. Three of my aunts have two sons

Ans. Can't say


3. My father is only child to his father

Ans. False


4. I have six cousins from my mother side

Ans. Can't say


5. I have one uncle

Ans. Can't say(uncle can be from the mother's side as well)

 

PASSAGE B: Ether injected into gallablader to dissolve colestrol based gallstones. This type one day treatment is enough for gallstones not for calcium stones. This method is alternative to surgery for millions of people who are suffering from this disease. 

Answer questions 6-9 based on passage B

6.Calcium stones can be cured in oneday 

Ans. False


 7. Hundreds of people contains calcium stones

Ans. Can't say


8. Surgery is the only treatment to calcium stones

Ans. True


9. Ether will be injected into the gallbleder to cure the cholestrol based gall stones

Ans. True

 

PASSAGE C: Hacking is illegal entry into another computer. This happens mostly because of lack of knowledge of computer networking. With networks one machine can access to another machine.Hacking go about without knowing that each network is accredited to use network facility. 

Answer questions 10-12 based on passage B

10. Hackers never break the code of the company which they work for

Ans. Can't say


11. Hacking is the only vulnerability of the computers for the usage  of the data

Ans. False


12.Hacking is done mostly due to the lack of computer knowledge 

Ans. False  

 

PASSAGE C: Alphine tunnels are closed tunnels.In the past 30 yrs not even a single accident has been recorded for there is one accident in the rail road system. Even in case of a fire accident it is possible to shift the passengers into adjacent wagons and even the live fire can be detected and extinguished with in the duration of 30 min. 

Answer questions 13-16 based on passage C

13. No accident can occur in the closed tunnels

Ans. True


14. Fire is allowed to live for 30 min

Ans. False


16. All the care that travel in the tunnels will be carried by rail shutters.

Ans.True 

 

PASSAGE D: In the past helicopters were forced to ground or crash because of the formation of the ice on the rotors and engines. A new electronic device has been developed which can detect the watercontent in the atmosphere and warns the pilot if the temperature is below freezing temperature about the formation of the ice on the rotors and wings. 

Answer questions 17-20 based on passage D

17.The electronic device can avoid formation of the ice on the wings 

Ans.False


18. There will be the malfunction of rotor & engine because of formation of ice

Ans.True


19. The helicopters were to be crashed or grounded

Ans.True


20. There is only one device that warn about the formation of ice

Ans.True 

 

PASSAGE E:In the survey conducted in mumbai out of 63 newly married house wives not a single house wife felt that the husbands should take equal part in the household work as they felt they loose their power over their husbands. Inspite of their careers they opt to do the kitchen work themselves after coming back to home. the wives get half as much leisure time as the husbands get at the week ends. 

Answer questions 21-23 based on passage E

21.Housewives want the husbands to take part equally in the household

Ans.False


22. Wives have half as much leisure time as the husbands have

Ans. False


23. 39% of the men will work equally in the house in cleaning and washing 

Ans. False 

 

PASSAGE F:Copernicus is the intelligent. In the days of copernicus the transport and technology development was less & it took place weeks to comunicate a message at that time,wherein we can send it through satellite with in no time.Even with this fast developments it has become difficult to understand each other.

Answer questions 24-27 based on passage F

24. People were not intelligent during Copernicus days 

Ans.False


25. Transport facilities are very much improved in noe a days 

Ans.Can't say


26. Even with the fast developments of the techonology we can't live happily.

Ans. Can't say


27. We can understand the people very much with the development of communication

Ans. False. 

 

 PASSAGE G:Senior managers warned the workers that because of the intfoductors of japanese industry in the car market. There is the threat to the workers.They also said that there will be the reduction in the purchase of the sales of car in public.the interest rates of the car will be increased with the loss in demand. 

Answer questions 28-31 based on passage G

28. Japanese workers are taking over the jobs of indian industry.

Ans.False


29.Managers said car interests will go down after seeing the raise in interest rates.

Ans.True


30. Japanese investments are ceasing to end in the car industry.

Ans. False


31. People are very interested to buy the cars.

Ans.False 

 

PASSAGE H:In the totalitariturican days,the words have very much devalued.In the present day,they are becoming domestic that is the words will be much more devalued. In that days, the words will be very much effected in political area.but at present,the words came very cheap .We can say they come free at cost. 

Answer questions 32-34 based on passage H

32.Totalitarian society words are devalued.

Ans.False


33. Totalitarians will have to come much about words

Ans.True


34. The art totalitatian society the words are used for the political speeches.

Ans. False

 

PASSAGE I:There should be copyright for all arts. The reele has came that all the arts has come under one copy right society,they were use the money that come from the arts for the developments . There may be a lot of money will come from the Tagore works. We have to ask the benifiters from Tagore work to help for the development of his works. 

Answer questions 35-39 based on passage I

35. Tagore works are came under this copy right rule.

Ans. False


36. People are free to go to the public because of the copy right rule.

Ans.Can't say


38. People gives to theater and collect the money for development.

Ans.Can't say


39. We have  ask the Tagore resedents to help for the developments of art.

Ans.Can't say

 

PYSCHOMETERIC TEST

You don't need to fret much about this test. This test consists of 150 questions and is just a pyshcology test which should be answered confidently and doesn't require any preparation.One must try being consistent while answering as the same questions are repeatedly asked in different forms.Also one must answer all questions.Questions are of yes,no or can't say kind.

1. Will you be interested in social activities. 

2. While going upstairs do you move two steps at a time. 

3. Can you make friends with people of the same sex or with opposite sex also

4. Your friends consider you as a leader in your group 

5. People think that your'e serious minded. 

6. There are times you feel dull without any reason.

7. You host several parties

8. When relatives come to your house do you entertain them. 

9. You can work for long hours without tireness. 

10. In your company you want to lead the organisation. 

Back to top
Tata Consultancy Services Sample Test#2
 Home
 

Back To TCS Page



NOTE:EACH OF THE QUESTIONS GIVEN BELOW APPEAR AS MULTIPLE CHOICE QUESTIONS IN THE ACTUAL PAPER.

VERBAL SECTION

Directions for questions 1-15:Find the synonyms of the following words

1. Depreciation

Ans. Deflation, Depression, Devaluation, fall, slump in value


2. Deprecate

Ans. Feel and express disapproval of


3. Incentive

Ans. Thing one encourages a person to do something


4. Echelon 

Ans. Level of authority or responsibility 


5. Innovation

Ans.To make changes or introduce new things 


6. Intermittant 

Ans. Externally stopping and then starting 


7. Detrimental

Ans.Harmful


8. Aberration 

Ans. Deviation


9. Conciliation 

Ans.To make less angry or more friendly 


10. Orthodox 

Ans.Conventional or superstitious 


11. Fallible

Ans.Liable to err 


12. Volatile

Ans.Ever changing 


13. Manifestion

Ans.Clear or obvious 


14. Connotation

Ans. Suggest in addition to the fundamental meaning


15. Reciprocal 

Ans. Reverse, Opposite 

 

QUANTITATIVE SECTION

1. There are 150 weights .Some are 1 kg weights and some are 2 kg weights. The sum of the weights is 260.What is the number of 1kg weights?

Ans. 40


2. A is driving on a highway when the police fines him for overspeeding and exceeding the limit by 10 km/hr.At the same time B is fined for overspeeding by twice the amount by which A exceeded the limit.If he was driving at 35 km/hr what is the speed limit for the road?

Ans. 15 kmph


3. A moves 3 kms east from his starting point . He then travels 5 kms north. From that point he moves 8 kms to the east.How far is A from his starting point?

Ans. 13 kms


4. A car travels 12 kms with a 4/5th filled tank.How far will the car travel with 1/3 filled tank?

Ans. 5 kms


5. The sum of the digits of a two digit number is 8. When 18 is added to the number, the digits are reversed. Find the number?

Ans. 35


6. The cost of one pencil, two pens and four erasers is Rs.22 while the cost of five pencils, four pens and two erasers is Rs.32.How much will three pencils, three pens and three erasers cost?

Ans. 27


7. Fathers age is 5 times his son's age. 4 years back the father was 9 times older than son.Find the fathers' present age.

Ans. 40 years


8. What number should be added to or subtracted from each term of the ratio 17 : 24 so that it becomes equal to 1 : 2.

Ans. 10 should be subtracted


9. What is the 12th term of the series 2, 5, 8, ....

Ans. 35


10. If 20 men take 15 days to to complete a job, in how many days can 25 men finish that work?

Ans. 12 days


11. In a fraction, if 1 is added to both the numerator at the denominator, the fraction becomes 1/2. If numerator is subtracted from the denominator, the fraction becomes 3/4. Find the fraction.

Ans. 3/7


12. If Rs.1260 is divided between between A, B and C in the ratio 2:3:4, what is C's share?

Ans. Rs. 560


13. A shopkeeper bought a watch for Rs.400 and sold it for Rs.500.What is his profit percentage?

Ans. 25%


14. What percent of 60 is 12?

Ans. 20%


15. Hansie made the following amounts in seven games of cricket in India: Rs.10, Rs.15, Rs.21, Rs.12, Rs.18, Rs.19 and Rs.17(all figures in crores of course).Find his average earnings.

Ans. Rs.16 crore

 

CRITICAL REASONING SECTION

This section is basically just a reading comprehension section.The critical reasoning section consists of some passages followed by 4 to 7 questions per passage.The questions are such that they require ability to read fast and comprehend.The questions asked in this section have three choices TRUE, FALSE, CAN'T SAY.Some examples of passages are given in test 1.For further practice you may go through any GRE or CAT book which will provide you with ample practice regarding these kinds of questions.

 

PYSCHOMETERIC TEST

This test consists of 150 questions and is just a pyshcology test which should be answered confidently and doesn't require any preparation.One must try being consistent while answering as the same questions are repeatedly asked in different forms.Also one must answer all questions.Questions are of yes or no kind.

example: 

Are you sincere?

If you find a purse in the market with loads of money would you return it to the rightful owner?

While climbing up the stairs do you take two steps at a time?

Do you drink and smoke more than you think you should?

Are you the life of the party you attend?

Are you shy?

 

Back to top
