				CS

Source : University of Roorkee
Dated  : 31/07/97


1. VOCABULARY.(SYNONYMS)               40 BITS.    20 MARKS. 20MIN.
2. QUANTITATIVE APTITUDE               15 BITS     30 MARKS  15 MIN.
3. CRITICAL REASIONING.(COMPREHENSION) 50 BITS     50 MARKS  25 MIN.
4. PSYHOMETRIC TEST.                   150 BITS    150 MARKS 30 MIN



						   250 MARKS   90 MIN
						  --------  -------




PREPARATION.  IT  SIMPLY  TEST YOUR  PSYCHOLOGY.  GIVE  MOST  POSITIVE  
ANSWERS  TO  THIS  SECTION. I AM SENDING SOME QUESTIONS  TO  YOU.  THE 
VOCAB.  IS SAME. BUT THERE IS SOME CHANGES IN PASSAGES.  BUT THE  IDEA 
IS SAME.




-------------------------------------------------------------
1.   DON'T  WRITE FULL ANSWERS  TO VOCAB. SECTION. DO ONLY  36  to  37 
QWUE's.BECAUSE THEY DISQUALIFIED SOME CANDIDATES HERE.

2.   WE  ARE  SENDING ANSWERS TO THIS SECTION. SO YOU  SIMPLY  MUG  UP 
ANSWERS.

3.  FOR CRITICAL REASONING SECTION WE ARE  SENDING ANSWERS.BUT SOME OF 
THESE  ANSWERS  MAY CHANGE. SO YOU PLEASE CHECK  IN  EXAMINATION.  THE 
ANSWERS  IS  SIMPLY (TRUE) OR (FALSE) OR (CAN'T SAY) TYPE.   FOR  THIS 
SECTION YOU HAVE READ AS FAST   AS YOU CAN. IT SIMPLY TEST YOUR  COMPRE
HENSION ABILITY.

4.   EVENTHOUGH   WE  ARE SENDING  ANSWERS  TO  MATHEMATICAL  ABILITY.  
SECTION.  YOU DO " ROUGH " WORK BACK OF YOUR PAGE. IT IS ALSO  ONE  OF 
IMPORTNANT CAUTION.

5.   IN PSYCHOLOGY SECTION THE QWE'S MAY REPEATE AT LEAST FOUR  TIMES. 
BY SIMPLY CHANGING SENTENCE FORMATION. SO BECAREFUL GIVE SAME  ANSWERS 
TO THOSE QWE'S.


THERE  WILL  BE NO NEGATIVE MARKING. TIME 90 Min., 
APPEARED FOR EXAM =255 STUDENTS
SELECTED FOR INTERVIEW =122,        FINALLY SHORT LISTED = 55 STUDENTS.


 
DIRECT ANSWERS :
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Admonish : usurp         Meager :scanty         Alienate : estrange
Merry : gay              Brim : Boarder         obstinate : stubborn
Pretention:pretentioius  Tranquil:serene        solicit : urge
subside : wane           furtive :stealthy      misery : disstress
volume :quantity         veer : diverge         stiffle :sniths
adhesive : ---           Hamper : obstruct      belief : conviction
lament : wail            to merit :to deserve   incentive : ----
inert: passive           Baffle : Frustrate     Confiscate : appropriat
Covet : crave            Caprice : whim         Concur :acquiesce
Cargo :freight           Dispel :  Scatter      Divulge : -----
Discretion: prudence     Emancipate : liberate  Efface : obliterate
Hover : linger           Heap : to pile         Instigate : incite
latitude : scope         latent : potential     lethergy : stupor
momentary : transient
 ----- means , for these words we are not able to reproduce answers.

PART II   QUANTITATIVE APTITUDE ,TIME 20 Min. MARKS :30.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
1. Two pencils costs 8 cents, then 5 pencils cost how much
(Ans:20 cents).

2. A work is done by the people in 24 min. one of them can do
this work a lonely in 40 min. how much time required to do the same
B
work for the second person.
(ans:60 min.)

3. A car is filled with four and half gallons of oil for full round
trip. fuel is taken 1/4 gallons mor3 in going than coming. what is
the fiel consumed in coming up? (2 gallons)

4. low temperature at the night in a city is 1/3 more than 1/2
hinge as higher temperature in a day. sum of the low temp and
higherst temp is 100C. then what is the low temperature (40 C)

5. A person who decided to go weekend trip should not exceed 8 hours
 driving in a day Average speed of forward journy is 40 mph. due to
traffic in sundays, the return journey average speed is 30 mph.
how far he can select a picnic spot (120 miles).

6. A sales person multiplied a number and get the answer is 3,
instead of that number divided by 3. what is th answer he actually
has to get ? (1/3).

7. A ship started from port and moving with I mph and another ship
started from L and moving with H mph. At which place these two ships
meet ?  ( Ans is between  I and J and close to J)

	     !_____!_____!_____!_____!_____!_____!
	    port   G     H     I     J     K     L

8. A building with hight D ft shadow upto G A neighbour building with
what height shadow C ft is      (B ft.) 
	  !_____!_____!_____!_____!_____!_____!_____!
	  A     B     C     D     E     F     G     H

9. A person was fined for exceeding the speed limit by 10 mph.Another
person was also fined for exceeding the same speed limit by twice
the same.  If the second person was travelling at a speed of 35 mph.
find the speed limit (15 mph)

10. A bus started from bustand at 8.00a m and after 30 min staying at
destination, it returned back to the bustand.  the destination is 27
miles from the bustand. the  speed of the bus 50 percent fast speed.
 at what time it retur4ns to the bustand (11.00)

11.in a mixture, R is 2 parts, S is 1 part. in order to make S to 25%
of the mixture, howmuch R is to be added   ( one part).

12. wind flows 160 miles in 330 min, for 80 miles how much time
required.
13. with 4/5 full tank vehicle travels 12 miles, with 1/3 full tank
how much distance travels  ( 5 miles).

14. two trees are there. one grows at 3/5 of the other. in 4 years,
total growth of trees is 8 ft.  what growth will smaller tree will
have in 2 years.  (<2ft)

15. A storm will move with a velocity of    towords the center in
hours. At the same rate how much far will it move in hrs.
(but Ans is 8/3 or 2 2/3).

PART III: TIME 25 Min, MARKS :50.
-----------------------------------------------
CRITICAL REASONING : THERE WILL BE 13 PASSAGES WITH 50 QUESTIONS  TIME 
30  MIN. HERE I AM SENDING ONLY SOME OF THE PASSAGES (these will  give 
only rough idea)
(ANSWERS  WILL  BE  AS  YES/NO/CAN'T SAY we are  giving  our  answers, 
please check.)

1. My father has no brothers. he has three sisters who has two  childs 
each.

      1 my grandfather has two sons (f)
      2 three of my aunts have two sons(can't say)
      3 my father is only child to his father(f)
      4 i have six cousins from my mother side(f)
      5 i have one uncle(f)

2.  Ether injected into gallablader to dissolve galstones.  this  type 
oneday treatment is enough for gallstones not for calcium stones. this 
method  is alternative to surgery for millions of people who are  suf
fering from this disease.

      1 calcium stones can be cured in oneday (f)
      2 hundreds of people contains calcium stones(can't say)
      3 surgery is the only treatment to calcium stones(t) 
      based gall stones(t).

3.  Hacking is illigal entry into other computer. this is done  mostly 
because of lack of knowledge of computer networking with networks  one 
machine  can access to another machine. hacking go about without  know 
ing that each network is accredited to use network facility.

	1  Hacking people never break the code of the  company  which 
they work for (can't say).
	2 Hacking is the only vulnerability of the computers for the usage
	of the data.(f)
	3 Hacking is done mostly due to the lack of computer knowledge (f).
   (there will be some more questions in this one )

4.  alphine tunnels are closed tunnels. in the past 30 yrs not even  a 
single  accident  has been recorded for there is one accident  in  the 
rail  road system. even in case of a fire accident it is  possible  to 
shift the passengers into adjacent wagons and even the living fire can 
be detected and extinguished with in the duration of 30 min.

	1 no accident can occur in the closed tunnels (True)
	2 fire is allowed to live for 30 min.  (False)
	3 All the care that travel in the tunnels will be carried by rail
	shutters.(t)
	4

5.  In the past helicopters are forced to ground or crash  because  of 
the  formation of the ice on the rotors and engines. a new  electronic 
device  has  been developed which can detect the watercontent  in  the 
atmosphere  and  warns the pilot if the temp.is below  freezing  temp. 
about the formation of the ice on the rotors and wings.

1  the electronic device can avoid formation of the ice on the  wings 
False).
2  There will be the malfunction of rotor & engine because of  forma
tion of ice (t)
3 The helicopters are to be crashed or down (t)
4 There is only one device that warn about the formation of ice(t).

6.


wives not a single house wife felt that the husbands should take equal 
part  in the household work as they felt they loose their  power  over 
their  husbands. inspite of their careers they opt to do  the  kitchen 
work themselves after coming back to home. the wives get half as  much 
leisure time as the husbands get at the week ends.

1  housewives  want  the  husbands  to  take  part  equally  in   the 
household(f)
2 wives have half as much leisure time as the husbands have(f)
3  39%  of  the men will work equally in the house  in  cleaning  and 
washing
3

7. copernicus is the intelligent. In the days of copernicus the trans 
comunicate  a  message at that time.  wherein we can send  it  through 
satellite  with in no time ----------.  even with this  fast  develop
ments  it  has become difficult to understand each other.   

1 people were not intelligent during Copernicus days (f).  
2  Transport  facilities are very much improved in noe a  days  (can' 
say)     
3  Even with the fast developments of the techonology we  can't  live 
happily.(can't say)
4  We  can understand the people very much with  the  development  of 
communication(f).

Q8)  senior managers warned the workers that because of the  intfoduc
tors  of japanese industry in the car market. There is the  threat  to 
the workers.
      



of  the sales of car in public.the interest rates of the car  will  be 
increased with the loss in demand.

    1 japanese workers are taking over the jobs of indian industry.(false)
    2 managers said car interests will go down after seeing the raise 
in interest rates.(true)
    3 japanese investments are ceasing to end in the car industry.(false)
    4 people are very much interested to buy the cars.(false)

Q9) In the totalitariturican days,the words have very much devalued.In 
the  present day,they are becoming domestic that is the words will  be 
much more devalued.  In that days, the words will be very much effect
ed  in political area.  but at present,the words came very  cheap  .we 
can say they come free at cost.

     1 totalitarian society words are devalued.(false)
     2 totalitarian will have to come much about words(t)
     3 The art totalitatian society the words are used for the polit
ical speeches.
     4

Q10)  There should be copyright for all arts. The reele has came  that 
all  the arts has come under one copy right society,they were use  the 
money  that come from the arts for the developments . There may  be  a 
lot  of  money  will come from the Tagore works. We have  to  ask  the 
benifiters from Tagore work to help for the development of his works.

     1 Tagore works are came under this copy right rule.(f)
     2  People  are  free to go to the  because  of  the  copy  right 
rule.(can't say)
     3 People gives to theater and collect the money for development.(can't say)
     4 We have  ask the Tagore resedents to help for the developments of art.(can't say)

NOTE  :  DO 1,2,3,4,5 PASSAGES WHICH ARE EASY. LAST BUT ONE  ALSO.  DO 
THAT  PASSAGES CAREFULLY. TIME WILL BE INSUFFICIENT. PASSAGES ARE  NOT 
AS  EXACTLY AS ABOVE. THERE IS HIGHLEVEL ENGLISH IN ALL THE  PASSAGES, 
WE  ARE  GIVING IN OUR OWN WORDS , U CANNOT EXPECT THE  SAME  TYPE  OF  
TIME, IT IS INSUFFICIENT,TRY TO ANSWER AS MANY AS POSSIBLE.

SECTION 4.  PSYCHOMETRIC TEST.
----------------------------------------
DO NOT BOTHERE ABOUT MUCH ABOUT THIS TEST. BE OPTIMISTIC WHILE ANSWERE.
THERE WILL BE 150 QUESTIONS IN 30 MIN. THE QUESTIONS IN THIS SECTION MAY
REPEATED WITH SLIGHT VARIATIONS ANSWER SHOULD BE SAME IN BOTH THE CASES.
(ans will be as yes/no/can't say)

for example
1 you will be interested in social activities.
2 while going upstairs you will move two steps at a time.
3 you will be making friendship with same sex or with opposite sex also.
4 your friends will consider u as a leader in your group
5 people think that your'e serious minded.
6 some times you feel dull without any reason.
7 your'e host or hostes for several parties.
8 relatives come to your house you will entertain them.
9 you will do work for longtime without tireness.
10 in your company you want lead the organasition.
etc..  the qwestions may repeate several times so becareful and give same ans's.

	*************** ALL THE BEST **********************
================================================================================




 ----------
 Admonish-usurp,meager-scant,alienate-estrange,merry-gay,brim-boarder,obstinate-stubbourn
 solicit-urge,subside-wane,furtive-stealthy,misery-distress,volume-quantity,
 veer-diverge,stiffle-snithy,adhesive-sticky,hamper-obstruct,belief-co 
 nviction,lament-wail,incentive-spur,innert-passive,baffle-frustrate,confiscate-appropriate,covert-crave,caprice-whim,concur-acquiesce,cargo-frieght,dispel-scatter,divulge-reveal,tomerit-todeserve,discreation-prudence,emancipate-liberate,efface-obliterate,
 
 hover-linger,heap-to
 pile,instigate-incite,latitude-scope,latent-potential,lethargy-stupor
 momentary-transient,pretentious-ostentatious,embrace-effigy
 
 Apptitude
 ---------
 1)2 pencils costs 8 cents,then 5 pencils cost how much
 a)20c
 2)a work is done by the people in 24 min.one of them can do this work
 a lonely in 40 min.how much time required to do the same work for the
 second person
 a)60min
 3)a car is filled with four and half gallons of oil for full round
 trip.fuel is taken 1/4 gallons more in going than coming.what is the fuel
 consumed in coming up.
 a)2 gallons
 4)low temperature at the night in a city is 1/3 more than 1/2 hinge as
 higher temperature in a day.sum of the low temp and high temp is 100 c.
 then what is the low temp.
 a)40 centigrade
 5)a person who decided to go weekend trip should not exceed 8 hours
 driving in a day average spped of forward journey is 40 mph.due to
 traffic insundays the return journey average speed is 30 mph.how far he
 can select a picnic spot.
 a)120 miles
 6)a sales person multiplied a number and get the answer is 3
 instead of that number divided by 3.what is the answer he actually
 has to get.
 a)1/3
 7)a ship started from a port and moving with I mph and another ship
 started from L and moving with H mph.at which place these two ships
 meet.
 a)between I and J and close to J
 8)a building with height D ft shadow upto G.A neighbour building
 with what height shadow C ft is
 a)B ft
 9)a person was fined for exceeding the speed limit by 10mph.another
 person was also fined for exceeding the same speed limit by twice the same
 if the second person was travellling at a speed of 35 mph.find the
 speed limit
 a)15mph
 10)a bus started from bustand at 8.00am and after 30min staying at
 destination it returned back to the bustand.the destination is 27
 miles from the bustand the speed of the bus 50percent fast speed at what
 time it returns to the bustand.
 a)11.00am
 11)in a mixture,R is 2 parts,s is 1 part in order to make s to 25% of the
 mixture,howmuch r is to be added
 a)one part
 12)wind flows 160 miles in 330min.for 80 miles how much time required
 a)---
 13)with 4/5 full tand vehicle travels 12 miles, with 1/3 full tand how
 much distance travels
 a)5 miles
 14)2 trees are there.one grows at 3/5 of the other.In 4 years
 total growth of the trees is 8 ft.what growth will smaller tree will have
 in 2 years.
 a)2 ft
 15)a storm will move with a velocity of --- towards the center in ---
 at the same rate how much far will it move in hrs
 a)8/3 or 2 2/3
 15 not clear
 
 
 Reasoning
 ----------
 A.
 my father had no brothers but his 3 sisters are all married and each has 2
 children.my grandfather has 2 sons.
 1.mu father was an only child     F
 2.3 of my aunts have sons         C
 3.i have six cousins on my mother's side   C
 4. i have only one uncle   F
 
 B.
 Senior managers in a leading company said that new japanese investment
 in india was transforming the car industry and warned that jobs were
 under threat from japanese competition. they stated that increasing
 competition would be coupled with an in evitable downturn i the car market
 and the recent rise in interst rates whaich had already hit demand.   
 5.some senior managers said that more people will want to buy new cars in
 the future.  F
 6.managers told workers that japanese workers are taking jobs away from
 indian workers in the car industry.  F
 7.the managers issued their warning after a rise in interest rates.  T
 8.the increased rate of the interest will mean that japanese firms will
 cease to operate in this country.  C
 
 C.Researchers in mumbai have found that certain types of gallstones can be
 dissolved by injecting them with a gasoline additive in the form of ether
 the ether is injected through a tube directly into a tube directly into
 the gallbladder.the one day treatment works only on cholesterol-based
 stones.not those composed largely o calcium.however as the clolesterol
 stones are by far the most common typefor millions of gallstones
 sufferers the treatment should offer a welcome alternative tosurgery
 the commonest option in nost hospitals.
 9.injecting ether into the gallbladder dissolves most gallstones   T
 10.surgery is the only treatment for calcium stones   T
 11.hundreds of peoplecontains calcium stones    C
 12.calcium stones will be cured in one day  F
 
 D.organising the home can be perceived as conferring power so large
 numbers of women are unwilling to let go of chores,even when they have
 careers.a survey found that,out of 65 new marriages not one single wife
 expected her husband to share work equally.according to the family policy
 studies center 81% working wives return home to do all th cooking.The
 average male has nearly half as much more tfree time at weekends
 than his wife and the typical new father spends just 37 seconds a day
 talking to his baby.
 13.most working wives do not expect their husbands to share chores
 equally.   T
 14.the average wife has half as much free time at weekends as her husband.
 F
 15.some women collude in the unequal distribution of house hold work
 because they want to retain control    C
 16. 39% of all men with working wives do the cooking and all the cleaning
 F
 
 E.confucius said that to know the future we have to understand the pasthis
 time transport ,communications and scientific knowledge were less
 developed than they are today.news took weeks to travel where as today
 satellite links connect the continents virtually instantaneously.but
 our technological advances in the field of communications seem not to have
 improved our capacity to understand one another
 17.in confucius daay people were more intelligent    C
 18.we understand each otheer better now than in confucius time because
 we can travel more quickly.  F
 19.we have made great improvements in transport since confucius day  T
 20.none of our scientific discoveries has really improved our lives  C
 
 F.words in totalitarian systems have an unhealthy importance and in such
 states now attempting to return to a more democratic normality there has
 been a natural inevitable and healthy devaluation of words whereas
 previouslu a single word used in a sppech or even a play or poem could be
 a serious political event now the words come cheaper almost free.
 politics is politics again and poetry only poetry
 21.totalitarian state devalue words  T
 22.only non-totalitarian regimes produce poetry of political importance
 T
 23.writers under totalitarian regimes have to choose their words care
 fully   T
 24. the democratic political system is healthier than others   C
 
 K.electronics technology is coming to the rescue of helicopters which can
 be grounded or crash in icy conditions the machines are especially
 vulnerable to the build up of ice on both their rotors and engine air
 intake when operating in cold damp conditions.the problem is 2 fold
 ice increases the weight and the build upp makes the aerofoils
 less efficient .now at last a detector has been devised which the company
 hopes will mean safer flightsand less frequent grounding.unlike most
 devices in use at present it can detect the liquid water content of cloud
 above freezing level.so the warning is ginven before the potential hazard
 is encountered.
 
 39.an electronic device has been invented which will prevent  the build
 up of ice on helicopter rotors   F
 40.helicopters are sometimes grounded because in cold damp weather their
 engine air intakes and rotors malfuntion owing to the formatrion of ice.
 T
 41.only one device can at present detect the liquid water content of
 cloud above freezing level  C
 42.in future fewer helicopters will crash or have to grounded   T
 
 L.anyone whos has systematically examined faces will have perceived a
 prepondreance although not a proliferation of asymmtry.whether or not
 the expression is volitinal and self controlled or spontaneous appears
 to predict facial asymmetry as does the type of emotion protrayed.positive
 emotions are usually displayed symmetrically although a left sided 
 representation of a negative emotion is more common.posed expressions and
 negative emotions are less likely to be symmetrically represented.
 43.an angry person is more likely to have a lopsided expression than
 someone who is smiling  T
 44.a deliberately assumed facial expression will always be asymmetrical  F
 45.an actor is likely to smile symmetrically when acting   C
  46.more self conscious people are likely to have less asymmetrically
facial expressions than those who are less aware of themselves   T

 M. human existence is not susceptible of arbitary division between
consciousness and unconsciousness.the conscious world invades and shapes
the activities of the unconscious while many of the great  achievements of
humanity's waking hours were wholly or partly inspires bu dreams .even if
it could be argued that dreams precede experience such a dichotomy could
not be drawn as the influence of dreaming on the waking state would remain
unclear but as yet no common vocabulary exists to record the substance
of prenatal dreaming
47.sleep can be a creative state.   T
48.it is difficult to tell whether a sleeper is dr3eaming or not   C
49. if we knew what babies dream about before they are born we could
show that conscious and unconscious mond influence one another   F
50. it is untrue to claim that the conscious and unconscious worlds never
impinge on one another  F

New twenty questions
--------------------
N. disease x succeeds lung disease.it may also occur helthy persons the
person looks healthier from outside.the number of red blood cells in 
the blood increased and this leads to thickness fo the blood as a result
of which blood lacks inside the vessels .the person suffers heart attact.
one possible solution is to remove a litre of blood or to control the
growth of red blood cells.
53.lung disease precedes the disease x   T
54.a person who gets heart attack always has disease x   F
55.people suffering from disease x look healthier   C
56.one litre of blood must be removed to cure this   T

O.a starfire engine has been designed to work only for unleaded
petrol.this crossfire engine is designed for both 1500 and `1800 cc
they internally and externally look alike except for the difference
in wheels ----,2000 cc is differentr from the above.two in terms of 3
features --- ----- ---- on the bumber.
57.the engine run only on the leaded petrol   F
58.1500 and 1800 cc look alike   F
59.apart from cross fire engines they manfacture ----  F
60.internal structure of the 2000cc is same as that of both 1500 and
1800 cc     C

P.a weed killer to kill the weeds has been developed.the weed killer
solution has to be applied to the growing tips. it need not to be applied
to all the tips.the solution has to be prepared in a can in one hand
and the plants are taken in the other hand with a glove and are immersed
in the solution if we cannot immerse them in the solution the solution
can be applied to the roots with a brush.it used without care it can
pose danger to other plants.
61.the solutions has to applied to growing leaves  
62.to use the weedkiller first take the plants in the cn as then pour the 
solution into it.
63.it is sufficient to apply it only to some roots
64.it effects to the other plants.

Q.
65.flora 3 sofa set gives value to ur money
66.padding is used to increase durablity
67.flora will made all other products other than sofa sets
68.can we use wood as -----  T

R.

69.the length of the cracker will be less than 12 cm    F
70.the center part of the crackers is 4cm   T




Hello gupta,
these are the questions given from tcs paper
dont answer all questions.

In reasoning test at the end of each question we indicated
F,T,C
where F represents    False
"     T   "           True
"     C    "           cant say.

after this psychmetry test will be there.dont bother about it it is just
formal.they will not consider it.But answer all 150 questions in 30 
minutes


All the best




 critical reasonig:

   G.statistics show that millions of vehicals have beencarried by shuttle
over the past 30 years through alpine tunnels withouty one ever catching
tire.in the alpine tunnels.drivers and passengers sit in theirvhehicals on
the shuttle trains.only one vehical has evercaught fire on the bussy
french motorail equivalent system.this sort of accidents is not possible
in a closed shuttle. assertinos that a vehical fire  will lead to
catastophe have no basis. since the resoures exit do detect,control and
extingush  a fire and to remove any persons present safely to an adjoning
wagon, leaving any surviving fire facing rapid extinction within a wagan
built to contain fire for 30 minutes. catastrophe seems very unlikely.

25. if a car cauget fire in a rail shuttle, probably none would be killed.
   
    (T)    
26.at least one vehical has cauht fire in an alpine tunnel.(f)
27.if a fire started in a wagon, it would be allowed to burn itself out in
   30 minutes.(f)
28.if would theoreticaly be possible for a car to cath fire in aclosed
    shuttle system.(F)

H)every form of art is protected by copy write,upon the expiration

 of whitch the property passes into the public domain and becomes freely
available to any one wishing to exploit it commercialy. the time has come
when all treasures shoud pass to the controled of a trust,and by this made
readily available to anyone on pament of a fee or royality.the income
fromthe works of tagore would alone be enarmous.these who now main
financialbenifit from his genius should make some contribution to the
welfare of the arts in general.
29.tagore's plays are not protected by copyright.  F
30.tagore's decendants should be asked to make some contribution  to the 
arts C
31.instead of buying a ticket , theatregoers should pay a fee to trust for
the benefit of the arts.  C
32. More people could go to the theatre if copy rightwere abolished  C
I. Hacking is a crime made possible by a relatively new technology,
which one of the reasons it is often poorly understood and reported.
Many computers, but no means all,are now linked togetherin networks which
allow users on one computer to communicate with others on the same
network.If a computer is not networked,no manipulation of its datafrom
another machine is possible.So long as users are authorised, networking
is just a way of making work easier and more productive.Hacking on the
other hand,is the unauthorised use of networks or unauthorised entty 
into the computers themselves.Most people do not need to break into the 
networks they use,since they are already accredited users.
33. Most hackers are authorised to break into networks  F
34. Computers are only vulerable to the unauthorised manipulation of
  their data via another computer if they are networked  T
35.The main reason why it is relatively easy to break into a computer is
that few people understand the technology.  C
36.Hackers do not work fot the firms whose networks they break into.  T
J.Although invaders represent a threat to the conservation of flora and
fauna,there are two special cases in which invasion have been deliberately
brought about.One is the desire to control presents by natural predators,
whichmay have to be brought in from other countries.The second is
releasing organisms into the wild(or on to farms,from which they might
escape)that are completely novel,beacause they have been genetically
engineered.There is nothing intrinsically sinister about engineered
organisms,but any novelty must be regarded as a potential invader.
37.Pest control does not threat the conservation of flora and fauna. T
38.Genetically engineered organisms must always be regarded as poten-
tially dangerous.  F
39.Natural predators are work harmful than pests.T
40.Genetically engineered organisms escaped from the farm,they will be
pose a threat to wildlife. T






