1)  Daniel has as many sisters as brothers. Daniel's one sister has twice as many brothers as sisters. How many boys and how many girls are there.
ANS:   Boys-4 and Girls-3.

2)  It is now time 3:15. What is the ange between the hours hand and the minutes hand.
ANS:  7 1/2 degrees.

3)  Sita has habbit of drinking coke bottles. Five empty bottles of coke can be exchanged with a new coke bottle. Sita colected 77 empty bottles. How many cokes sita can drink.
ANS:  19

4)  There are two towns separated by 99kms. There are 98 equally distant posts between the two towns. Each pole has distance from both the ends written on them on both the sides. How many poles are there with only two numbers used on them( hint: pole with 33, 66 on both sides has only two numbers used).
ANS:  18

5)  Each letter from A to Z are assigned vaues auch that A=1 and the remaining letter has a value of letter position to the power of previous letter vaue. (eg.  B=2 power 1; C= 3 power 2; D=4 power 9) Then evaluate the expression
    (X-A)*(X-B)*(X-C)*(X-D).............*(X-Y)*(X-Z)
ANS:  0

6)  There are 5 cheeses and one cutlet with different weights of 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 31 pounds. A bought two cheeses and B bought cheese of exactly double the amount of A. What is the weight of cutlet.
ANS:  20

7)  There are 4 girls in class. "I have won 1 more prize than you" said bailey. "i won 2 prizes more than you" said another one to someone. "i won 3 more than you", " i won 4 more than you", " i won 5 more than you", " i won 6 more than you". These are the statements made by different girls with different other girls. There are 27 prizes won altogether. How many prizes are won by bailey.
ANS:  5

8)  There is a car running at a maximum speed of 100km/hr. When 3 presons are sitting in the car the speed was 88km/hr with a proportional decrease in speed. When there are 6 persons board on the car what is the speed of the car. (the car can carry a maximum of 7 numbers)
ANS:  70

9) there are four brothers A, B,C,D and each has two dogs. they name their dogs after their other brothers.the dogs were of breed c, d, t. their are threee c three t's and two d's 
---each brother will not have the dogs of the same breed 
---no two dogs of same breed will have the same name 
---B will not have t breed dogs 
---A will not name his dog after D 
---C will not name his dog after A. 
What are the names and owners of dogs of d breed?? 
ans B,C are the owners A and C are the dogs names.(6m) 
(answer is wrong -- aqueel)

10) there was a party held in which four DJ's contested.L, S,P,J. They were numbere 1, 2, 3, 4. L won the first place.P defeated S.The person who was numbered 2 had red deck. J did not have yellow deck. the person who came last had a blue deck .there is only one person who is numbered the same as his position.the person who was third had green deck. find the positions of all the persons and their numbering and their decks. (8m) 
ans L RED 
P YELLOW 
S GREEN 
J BLUE. 

and there is an essay (15min) 

*******Topics******** 
1) power and politics, 
2)relevance of education with work life. 
