Written Exam
=============

All the questions were take from old CAT papers.

1:1 negative marking.
The paper will be divided into 6 sections and each section had to be completed in 10 min.You cannot move forward or backwards.After every 10 min u had to move to the next section.

There were total 80 questions that had to be attempted in 60 mins. the cut-off should be around 15 as final total(after negative marking) 



Section 1 : Quantitative Maths
10th level maths, the type of ques that come in CAT
exams. Age problem,time & speed,simple
time & work, profit 
loss, percentage.
Not very easy section,specially since it was the first
section and there was tremendous time pressure.

Section 2 : Logical Reasoning
ques based on series, coding, blood relations ,
analogy

Section 3 : English Usage & verbal logic
Parajumbles, antonym-synonyms, analogy
You need to have a good vocabulary for this section.

Section 4 : Data Interpretation
There were three sets of problems based on pie chart,
table and bar chart
It was quite okay.problems were not too tough but it
all depends on ur speed of calculations.

Section 5 : Reading Comprehension
7 mins were given to read the passage and 3 mins for
answering the questions. you are not allowed to turn
back to the passage while answering the ques. passage
was easy but answer choices were quite close and
confusing.Adding to it the fact that u cant turn back
to the passage made it a slightly tougher section.

Section 6 : Logic
There were 2 flowcharts and some questions based on
them. it was the easiest section and all the questions
in this section could be attempted correctly.

After this written exam,there was a 15 min. passage
writing. The topic was announced on the spot. Topic
wasnt too difficult. You dont have to show any
exemplary writing skills in it. Just make sure that u
use correct grammar. But then, dont take passage
writing too lightly, because it is considered for the
selection. Many students with a fairly good score were
rejected bcoz of Passage Writing.

Interview
==========

The i/w is fairly simple. It was supposed to be a two phase process 
one technical i/w and one HR i/w , but the focus in
both i/w was HR only. Even during technical i/w,
mostly HR based ques. were asked. there were very few
technical ques and they were quite simple. They were
just checking basic knowledge. the questions were not
confusing and they wont go too deep while asking the
ques.
In technical ,they ask ur area of interest and ques.
are asked from that subject. But few C ques were
common for everyone and computer science students were
asked questions on C++. Electronics students were
asked questions in communication..many were asked to
explain abt GSM and CDMA technology or draw its
architechture.

What is Polymorphism ? Function Overloading ? Data
Hiding ? Constructors/Destructors?Give
logic of a program where u have to find string of
max.length from among those given.

Many students were asked question on inheritance..its
use? draw diff models of inheritance.what is
abstraction ? main concepts of OOP? diff. b/w
preincrement and postincrement. draw flowchart for
fibonacci series. what is 2-tier computer
architechture? 3-tier comp. architechture?

Those who specified Computer Networks or DBMS as their
area of interest were asked ques. related to that.

Just prepare one subject as ur area of interest and revise
C and C++. Most students specified n/w and dbms as
their area of interest bcoz that is the field that MBT
works in. Electronics students mainly went for
communication and digital n/w. If u r CS student then
u are expected to know C++ and will definitely be
asked ques on that. Almost everyone was asked to give
logic of a C program but program was quite easy. Only
basic knowledge of the subjects is necessary, as i
said earlier ques were not tricky and they were not
testing too deeply.

The HR questions were basically the usual ones that
are asked in every i/w
Tell me about urself
Family background
Why do u want to join MBT?
What qualities do u have to be selected today ?
What technical skills have u acquired?
hobbies/interests
what do u know abt MBT
will u have any problems relocating to Mumbai/Pune ? (
Answer this with a NO)
Any plans of higher studies ? ( Again a solid NO!)
which was the last book u read?what did u like in it ?

there were also ques like :
tell me about the ups and downs that u have seen in ur
life
would you marry a pop star?
r u interested in politics? did u vote this time ? do
u think we should vote ?
do u read newspaper?tell me 2 recent incidents in news
that have affected u
if u r standing on the roof with ur 4-5 yr old bro/sis
and looking at the moon and suddenly the moon is
enveloped by clouds and ur bro asks u what happned?
then how will u explain the hiding of moon behind the
clouds to him ?

In the end they asked if there was something that I
wanted to ask them ?

Interview went quite well. They make u comfortable
while taking i/w. So answer easily, as if u are having
a normal conversation with someone u know.Look into
the eyes of interviewer while answering.Dont get
nervous.Keep a smile on you face and answer
confidently. Do read company profile and other details
on the company website before going for the i/w. It
doesnt take too much of a preparation. Just be
Yourself !
if you are asked some questions pertaining to some
failure in ur life (for eg. why was ur rank in
entrance exam so low ? why is there a decline in ur
marks from class 10th to 12th or B.tech) , then
instead of giving some excuse, it would be better to
accept your mistake and explain what u learnt from
that failure or how u r trying to overcome it. In HR
there is no ques that u wont be able to answer, in
tech if u dont know an answer just say 'Sorry sir, i
dont know this'.Its better not to answer than to give
wrong or vague answers.
Show that u are willing to work. For example if u
asked 'do u have any plans of higher studies?' then
always reply with a NO even if u r preparing for
GATE/CAT etc. (Afterall why will they take u if u
intend to join a PG course instead of joining them? )I
was asked that since i am youngest in my family and
must be quite pampered , so how am i feeling abt
taking up a job and taking up responsibility?does it
make me nervous? I replied that i wasnt
nervous.Infact, i was quite excited because my dream
was finally coming true...i have been preparing and
studying to become a s/w engg.and now that i am
finally going to become one, i am very excited that my
ambition is finally going to be fulfilled.

Keep 2 things in mind : In tech. ques answer only to
the point. dont attempt to provide any extra info
unless u r asked for it. But reverse is true for HR
based ques. Talk freely in them.Well that doesnt mean
that u go on and on and dont stop talking, but then do
offer info abt u which u think will highlight some
good quality of urs and will be useful for impressing
the interviewer. Ofcourse,make sure that u dont brag
or lie.Be sincere.