hiii
 
yaar sabse pehle written tha, it was ok.. Aptitude , data analysis, os, data structures, c/c++ , reading comprehension, 
and e-mail writing....
c/c++ ke ques to kaafi "test your c skills" and "test ur c++ skills" mein se the.
Reading passage thoda tough tha par ho jayega, apti was fine, thoda set etc aana chahiye.....
 
Now cuming to tech interview...
 
enter karte hi, first of all he asked me tell about myself, I started with telling about my schooling, grad and then mca, 
hobbies, strenghths.......
then he asked whether i am comfortable with c/c++ , pointers...
i said i am ok with them..
he asked me to allocate some memory and then assign some value to it and then free it
I wrote
int *i ;
i = (int*) malloc(4) ;
*i = 10 ;
free(i) ;
 
he said it is fine now optimize it
i then used calloc but it was no better.
He asked me why i used free, i said because it allocated from heap...
 
Then he asked about data structures
delete last node from linked list...
 
phir came to networks, layers of Tcp/ip
why transport layer is above network layer.
 
phir asked whether i ahve mobile phone, i said yes, then he asked about mobile communication , i.e. its working..
 
then operating systems, he asked me to tell everyting i know about os, i started with its definition , then its main 
functions, he then asked in detail about process management... i told swapping, schedulars, jo bhi mujhe aata tha, 
sab bol diya, various stages of process...
 
phir he asked whether i am comfortable with software eng, i said i like the sub, then he asked about software development 
life cycle...
 
he asked me to implement free, on which i said that i dont know this, on which he repleied that i have to answer something, 
work cant go like this, so i answered something, which i thing was ok , because he appreciated my answer, even though i 
knew nothing about it.
 
in sub ques ke beech mein wo mujhse hr ke bhi ques pooch raha tha,
which was the last movie u saw, when was the last table tennis match u played...
 
finally he askeed me to implement queue using two stacks....
 
 
Now naggaro ques.
 
Offcampus diya tha
first round was tech wriiten, 4 code karne the
1. to find in a given string letter which has maximum occurance
2. To implement 8 queen problem
3. To check the status of sudoku,at any stage during the game
4. Permutation of a word
 
second round was apti wriiten
 
bahaut sare trigo aur geomety ke ques the, aur data analysis ke ques the
 
phir third round was interview
 
first ques was tell about yourself
phir he asked abt object oriented concepts
inheritance, encapsulation, polymorphism, abstraction, data hiding
 
phir came to virtual functions, friend functions, friend classes, which operators cant be overloaded...
order in which constructors are called, order in which destructors are called...
then some ques related to c++
 
then came to ds
 
1.what are  BST
 2. code to merge 2 bst,
3.  then to find the position where two linked list merge,
4. to delete a node having two children from bst,
5.  then what is graph
6. kruskal algo
7. prim
8. safe edges
9. dfs and bfs
 
then he came to dbms
 
concurrent queries, nested queries, he gave a query to write, outer join....
 
then os, context switch..
 
main thing is that u must answer everything with confidance ang dont get nervous...  try to give ur best....
 
All the best...