Placement Exams' Experiences' compilation……

By: Jyotsna Talreja




ST Microelectronics




Written

C-:10 questions

Oracle-:15 questions

C++(OOPS)-:15 questions

Aptitude- :10 questions




Interview

Ist round




What is difference between procedure and function? Which one you use
in SQL queries?

What is a doubly linked list? Write code for reversing a doubly linked list.

Detect cycle/Loop in linked list. What will be the complexity of the
code? Optimization was asked.

What are triggers? What are their uses? Different kind of triggers.

Define composition of OOPS.(concepts like aggregation etc).

Give an example of object base language. How it is different from
object oriented language?

What are cursors? Types of cursors (static, dynamic, forward only).

Difference between Trigger and stored procedure.

What is dual table?

Steps of execution of SQL "select query".

Complexity of merge sort.

Complexity: search in a binary tree.

Quick sort space constraint (can it work in constant space?)

All the OOPS principle were asked with examples.

FP tree (project listed in resume) was asked.

Difference between structure and a Class in C++.

Give an O (1) time taking structure to search operation.

Code for finding nth element of list.

Difference between primary key and unique key.







HR round

IInd round




Whole family background.

What forced u to take B.Sc. (H) Computer Science?

Who guided you to take B.Sc. in computer Science?

Which field in ICT like application development u wants to join?

Project to be done in last semester. What is your aim?

What is d difference b/w aim and goal?

What you think about yourself?

% of marks in every course.

Why ST?

Is any dream company of yours?




Managerial round

IIIrd Round







Firstly HR(Family background and other aspects)

Why St?

What attracted you to join sit for ST?

About placements in the dept !

After the technical

Can u have functions within a structure? And structure within a structure?

Can u have function within a function?

What is a relation? (RDMS)?

Entity->define it.

Difference between entity and a relation.

E.g. o f RDBMS.

Structure and class difference.

All OOPS principle.

U are sitting in my room. Give any e.g. of polymorphism in this room.

Factorial function:-code.

Write factorial program using only two variables.

SQL QUERIES were also asked and many small questions.



On 6/28/08, Shobhit Sinha <visitshobhit@gmail.com> wrote:
>
> Frendz do anybody has any idea about how and what to to prepare for STM?
> >
>
