Total Time:1 hour. 
Total Marks: 40.
Total Number of Sections: 5.
Total Number of Questions: 8 per Section.
Marking Scheme: 1 mark for correct, -.25 for wrong answer. 

First section 
Based on recursive function.

M(a,b,c)- L(a) is if u delete 1st element from it 

whatever is left.

N(a,b,c)-L(b) is 1st element of the list.

if (a,b) & a are two lists then M(l1,l2) is ((a,b),a).

X(a,l) = a
        = L(a)
        = M(a,l)

Y(a,l) = l
        = L(b)
        = M(l,a)

Based on this, eight questions were asked. 

Second section
Based on arrangment of dominos. 

Six Dominos are given. A figure created using these is also shown. But the alignment of the dominos in the figure is unknown. The question is to find out the possible alignment of the dominos.

Based on these, eight questions were asked. 

Third section
Based on encoding & decodings. 

Eg:- 
1) if abacbb corresponds to bbcaba
    & acbbca corresponds to acbbca
    then baabcb corresponds to?

Ans: bcbaab. (Read the string in reverse) 

2) if abcbac corresponds to bcbaca
    & acbacb corresponds to cbacba
    then abcabc corresponds to?

Ans: bcabca.(Rotate the string left by 1 letter)

Eight similar questions were asked. 

Fourth section
Based on finding valid Strings.

Eg:-
1) if x G 0 0 y G y is a string
where x,y are variables which forms strings of G and contains at least one letter.Then which of the following is a valid string of the same language.

a) G G 0 0 G G G G G
b) G G 0 0 G G G G

Ans: What they mean is that x and y should be substituted using a consistent value in all the places.
In (a) put x=G, y = G G.
In (b) x=G , but the 1st occurrence of y is G and 2nd one is G G.
So inconsistent … hence answer is (a) 
In some case it may create ambiguty while we substitute the values of x,y.
Sufficient clues will be given in the question to handle this.

Eight similar questions were asked. 

Fifth section
Based on Anagrams.

Eg:-
1) P_ _ S_ _ D_
a) utopian b)convince c)pervade

Ans: What they mean is , to find the partiular synonym of the words given, that fill correctly in the blanks.
Hence, convince - persuade. 

2) PERVERSE

3) DECADENT


Real Time Experience of Test Takers

The overall standard of the paper is very tough.
Here, the highest was 27(nagpur -25). But even then they shortlisted 51 students. Those who got around 15 also got through. So no need to worry…as far as they plan to recruit in big numbers. 
One cannot attempt the full paper.You better start with coding section(3)…and also finish 2, 4 sections. You may feel relaxed after this.Then go for the rest. It is better to leave the first section.(there is negative marking).As I’d told earlier …the order of the sections may vary from paper to paper. I think the examples I speified here are enough to identify the corresponding sections.

Before interview you will be given One form to fill in some personal questions like your strengths, weakness; aim in the life; what do u expect from the company etc. It is better to take help from any English Teacher or after discussing with our friends. 
Interview will be cool… Technical…..bit from unix shell prg…OOPS.. Whatever u say make sure u say in good english ..without “babbabba….” Or “pardon sir”. I guess they value the communiation skills very much.

 

