 
Cognizant Technology Solutions (CTS) Company Details


Cognizant is a different kind of offshore outsourcing company. We bring you the best of both worlds: the savings and superior quality of offshore development, and the immediacy and trust of a local company. We have often been called “The Home Team” of offshore outsourcing.

We deliver the full range of application outsourcing, business process, and consulting & systems integration services that you expect. And, because of our background serving the Global 2000, we are expert at managing the highly complex, long-term engagements that our clients require. Unlike our rivals, we work, not from contract to contract, but long-term partnerships with our customers.

We are a U.S.-based company that is listed on NASDAQ. We offer the financial transparency and good corporate governance practices that are expected. Governed by an independent board of directors, we comply with SEC and state regulations dictating retention of independent auditors. We eliminate potential legal issues because we pay locally prevailing salaries in every region where we operate, while observing all local tax, social security, and immigration laws. And we give back to the community, contributing to charitable and worthy causes that make our environment better. We are financially strong with $150m in cash, and good profit margins. In October 2003 we topped Forbes list of “hotshots” as the number 1 company.

We know that security is important to you. With well over half of our business coming from financial services and healthcare, we know how to manage privacy and data security issues. We are audited and certified to BS 7799, the set of international regulations governing physical and network security, and are well-experienced in working with clients that implement their own U.S. standards. We are routinely audited for security by our own clients, and routinely enforce their U.S.-level standards wherever the work is performed.

Taking Offshore Outsourcing to the Next Level
We can help you gain the benefits of a world-class staff, whose quality and process discipline have achieved ISO 9001 and SEI CMM Level 5 certifications. However, we go much further than achieving the certifications that are expected of offshore service providers.

We have proven methodologies that deliver the benefits of high offshore staffing ratios in as little as 6 to 8 weeks. Our approaches consistently deliver savings of 30 to 60%, and that is only the start. Our Transforming While Performing service lets your company reinvest some of the proceeds to additional savings of 40% or more by consolidating and optimizing your software portfolio, while transforming and outsourcing selected business processes.

We can execute because of our unique, client-focused culture. Unlike our competitors, we work with you over the long term. And while most of our rivals depend on local contractors, we invest heavily in recruiting key executives, and project heads, and practice leaders who are located close to our customers in North America and Europe. And we have strong management and technology depth in India, where we have been consistently ranked as the top business school recruiter.

We have the continuity and management depth to make sure that your technology supports your business, not the other way around. We back it up with the resources to deliver the cost, speed, and world-class process advantages of high offshore ratios.

Our ability to form tight partnerships with our customers has helped us pioneer the 4th Generation Offshore Outsourcing model, a new kind of outsourcing that keeps local managers close, transforming our world-class offshore teams into virtual extensions of your IT organization.

When your company is investing for the long-term, it won't be satisfied with anything less.
 

Benefits

We believe that our strength lies in our people. We believe that people are our assets and it is people who will ensure our success. Our business environment is dynamic, typified by a high degree of competition and rapid technological advances. Success in such a situation demands that we continuously challenge ourselves to higher levels of individual and collective performance. Toward this, we aim to provide an enabling and positive environment that will motivate our associates and facilitate achievement and maintenance of superior levels of performance. We believe in continuous education of our associates and strive to provide the best training facilities that will keep us on a par with the best professionals in our field. We believe in furthering the development of the person as a whole. A person's professional skills and knowledge are emphasized by his personal and emotional well being. We strive to provide a climate that nurtures the holistic development of our associates. Here is a summary description of our existing benefits package: 

For Indian Employees 

Healthcare Benefits
Cognizant provides comprehensive medical and accident insurance benefits to its associates. The premiums of these coverage are paid by the company. The Medical Insurance coverage extends to three of the Associate's immediate dependants.

Personal Health Care
Cognizant provides Associates the facility for extensive health check-up. For Associates above 40 years of age, the check-up facility can be availed once a year and for Associates below 40 years of age the check-up facility can be availed once in two years. Cognizant provides the facility for extensive eye check-up, every year.

Loans
Associates are provided financial assistance in case of a medical emergency. Associates are provided financial assistance at the time of their wedding. The new recruits are provided with interest free loans to assist them in their initial settlement at the work location.

Educational Benefits
Cognizant reimburses the expenses incurred towards tuition fees, examination fees, and purchase of books subject to a maximum of Rs. 5000/- per academic year for pursuing MS at BITS, Pilani.

Kit Allowance
Cognizant provides kit allowance for Associates for an overseas assignment.

Wedding Day Gift
Associate is given a gift voucher for the wedding. 

Employee Referral Scheme
The employee referral scheme is implemented to encourage Associates to refer friends and relatives for employment at Cognizant. 

Paid Days Off
Associates are eligible to avail 12 working days per year as vacation leave. The vacation leave can be carried forward for 1 year. Entitlement increases to 17 working days per year when the Associate completes 3 years of continuous service with Cognizant. 

Medical Leave
Associates can avail 6 days of medical leave per year. This can be accumulated up to 18 days. 

Maternity Leave
Maternity leave is for a period of 12 weeks which is inclusive of intervening Saturdays, Sundays, and other holidays. This leave can be availed even when an Associate adopts an infant.

Gratuity
Associates are entitled to social security measure calculated at the rate of one month's basic pay for every completed year of service.

Employee Stock Option Plan
Cognizant provides this plan for eligible associates who have contributed to the success of Cognizant.

 
