Mphasis-BFL Software              Mphasis -1   
 
 
 
                                           COMPUTER AWARENESS TEST 


1.In the command scanf, h is used for 

Ans. Short int


2.A process is defined as

Ans. Program in execution


3.A thread is

Ans. Detachable unit of executable code)


4.What is the advantage of Win NT over Win 95 

Ans. Robust and secure


5.How is memory management done in Win95 

Ans. Through paging and segmentation


6.What is meant by polymorphism

Ans. Redfinition of a base class method in a derived class


7.What is the essential feature of inheritance 

Ans. All properties of existing class are derived


8.What does the protocol FTP do

Ans. Transfer a file b/w stations with user authentification


9.In the transport layer ,TCP is what type of protocol

Ans. Connection oriented


10.Why is a gateway used 

Ans. To connect incompatible networks


11.How is linked list implemented

Ans. By referential structures


12.What method is used in Win95 in multitasking

Ans. Non preemptive check


13.What is meant by functional dependency 


14.What is a semaphore 

Ans. A method synchronization of multiple processes


15.What is the precedence order from high to low ,of the symbols ( ) ++ / 

Ans.( ) , ++, /


16.Preorder of A*(B+C)/D-G

Ans.*+ABC/-DG

18. B-tree (failure nodes at same level)


19. Dense index (index record appers for every search -key in file)


20.What is the efficiency of merge sort 

Ans. O(n log n)


21.A program on swaping ( 10,5 )was given (candidate cannot recollect)


22.In which layer are routers used 

Ans.In network layer 


23.In which layer are packets formed ( in network layer )


24.heap ( priority queue )


25.copy constructor ( constant reference )


26.Which of the following sorting algorithem has average sorting behavior --
       Bubble sort,merge sort,heap sort,exchange sort

Ans. Heap sort


27.In binary search tree which traversal is used for getting ascending order values--Inorder ,post order,preorder

Ans.Inorder


28.What are device drivers used for 

Ans.To provide software for enabling the hardware


29. Irrevalent to unix command ( getty)


30.What is fork command in unix 

Ans. System call used to create process


31.What is make command in unix

Ans. Used forcreation of more than one file


32.In unix .profile contains 

Ans. Start up program


33.In unix echo is used for ( answer C)


34.In unix 'ls 'stores contents in

Ans.inode block

