PERSONALITY EVALUATION
 


Your Social Boldness: Introverted VS Extraverted 

You are slightly extraverted. It's so nice to be you. You are comfortable being the center of attention, and you are just as comfortable sitting back and letting others take the spotlight. Your warm and friendly personality allows you to take a leadership role - that is, if you want it. In general, you do not mind public speaking, but sometimes you have to be in the proper frame of mind to feel at ease when making a presentation. When you believe in something, you do not hesitate to state your mind. People enjoy when you do this, because you have a cheerful way about you. At times, you seek thrills, and adventure, but a night home relaxing is just as fun for you. 
  



Your Agreeableness: Candid VS Considerate 

You are very considerate. You are a popular person, aren't you? Of course you are. You truly value harmony in dealing with others. People recognize your friendly, generous, and helpful personality. Your easy-going, agreeable nature makes you such a joy to be around. This is especially true in meetings or general conversations. The topic may become heated, but you are considerate of other's feelings and you will find a happy medium in order to placate those around you. This is because you have an optimistic view of human nature and you realize that if you trust people with their decisions that they are not trying to hurt you or take advantage of you. This special and rare quality is also seen in your altruism. You enjoy helping others. To you it is not a sacrifice; to you it is fulfilling to help others in need. 
  



Your Self-Control: Impulsive VS Cautious 

You are moderately impulsive. At times you can be impulsive, but not to the point where you are jeopardizing work or relationships. You know when to follow rules, but you also know when to bend rules that are not set in stone. If your home or work space gets a little messy, you do not get upset or feel compelled to tidy up. You do not have to have perfect order in your life to feel good about yourself or your environment. You tend to be more on the fun side of spontaneity, and enjoy being flexible with your plans and your life. In general, you prefer to make short-term goals rather than long-term goals. 
  



Your Anxiety Level: Excitable VS Relaxed 

You are quite excitable. You do not like stressful situations. You tend to react emotionally to stress, which can lead to bad moods, or even anxiety, anger, or depression. You like to be treated fairly, and may become upset if you sense that someone is trying to cheat you. You may find urges and cravings irresistible to the point that you are giving into them even if you know you will regret it or feel guilty later. Sometimes you may feel uncomfortable in social situations, even thinking that others are judging you. This self-consciousness may show through as shyness, because you do not want people to think poorly of you. You tend to worry and are apprehensive in unfamiliar circumstances. 
  



Your Openness to Change: Practical VS Imaginative 

You are moderately practical. You tend to be more comfortable when your daily activities are familiar and unchanging, rather than constantly in a state of flux. You prefer to deal with facts and not ideas. You prefer to be more practical and pragmatic, but you are able to be creative when the situation calls for it. You prefer the conversation or situation to be more straightforward. Emotionally, you are more conservative and tend not to express your feelings openly. You have a proper demeanor, which summons respect from those around you. 
  
The way you Think/Reason: Concrete VS Abstract 
You are very concrete in your thinking. You tend to prefer the plain, straightforward, and obvious to the complex, ambiguous, and subtle. You might even regard the arts and sciences with suspicion, regarding these endeavors as abstruse or of no practical use. You believe that intellect should not be equated with intelligence, as intellect is an intellectual style, not an intellectual ability. 
  



INTERPRETATION NOTES
 (1) The report sent to your computer screen upon the completion of this assessment is only a temporary web page. When you exit your web browser you will not be able to return to this URL to re-access your report. A copy of the report is emailed directly to you when you complete the assessment.
  
(2) Personality traits describe, relative to other people, the frequency or intensity of a person's feelings, thoughts, or behaviors. Possession of a trait is therefore a matter of degree. We might describe two individuals as extraverts, but still see one as more extraverted than the other. This report uses expressions such as "extravert" or "high in extraversion" to describe someone who is likely to be seen by others as relatively extraverted. 
  
(3) Please keep in mind that scores on a personality assessment are neither good nor bad. As with any personality inventory, scores and descriptions can only approximate an individual's actual personality. Questions about the accuracy of your results are best resolved by reviewing and discussing your report with people who know you well.
 
