16.4
I.P. address hierarchy guarantees what?
(a)Each computer is assigned a unique address and although assigning prefixes                  must be coordinated globally, suffixes can be locally assigned without global coordination
(b)Each computer is assigned a unique address
(c)although assigning prefixes must be coordinated globally, suffixes can be locally
 assigned without global coordination
(d)'i am who i am' annonomys
16.5
IP4 has Five(5) classes of addresses. They are broken into:
(a)Three(3) primary classes, One(1)multicast, One(1) reserved for future use.
(b)Two(2) primary classes, One(1) broadcast, One(1) multicast, One(1) for anycast.
(c)Three(3) primary classes, One(1) broadcast, One(1) reserved for future use.
(d)One(1) primary class, One(1) broadcast, One(1) multicast, One(1) anycast, One(1)
 reserved for future use.
16.5
The first 4 bits of an IP address identify:
(a)The class to which the address belongs.
(b)The network to which the address belongs.
(c)The host to which the address belongs.
(d)The number of computers attathed to the network to which the address belongs.
16.5
The first ______bits of an address determine the class to which the address belongs.
(a)four
(b)five
(c)three
(d)none (class is determined by the last bits of an address)
16.6
IP clss Computation must be efficient because?
(a)the computation is repeated frequently
(b)Computers are not able to process the difficult algorythm otherwise
(c)It's prefered to be efficient, but it is not required
(d)People are still using slow machines
16.6
What is used to denote a address class?
(a)the leading bits of the address.
(b)the last four bits of the address
(c)the number of bits in the address
(d)the prefix in the address
16.6
What&#8217;s the minimum number of bits at the beginning of an IP address
 can be used to determine the class of address?
(a)4
(b)3
(c)5
(d)6
16.7
When talking about IP addresses, why do we use dotted decimal notation instead
 of the underlying 32-bit binary number?
(a)It's more convenient for humans to understand.
(b)Computers can read it faster since it's less digits.
(c)It doesn't take up as much space.
 (d)Computers don't understand binary.
16.7
IP addresses are 32-bit numbers, dotted decimal notation expresses _____bit 
section of a 32-bit number as a decimal value and uses periods to seperate the section
8
16
4
2
16.7
An IP router keeps information in a routing table. Each destination listed in
 a routing is ________ , not ________ .
a network, an individual host
an individual host, a network
an individual host, a router
a router, a network
16.7
Which of the following statements is true?
255.255.255.255 is a legal IP address and also the 'highest' IP address numerically.
Dotted Decimal Notation refers to nothing but silly talk in The PolkaDot Door.
256.256.256.256 is a legal IP address and also the 'highest' IP address numerically.
Dotted decimal notation is a syntactic form that IP software uses to express 64-bit 
binary values when interacting with humans.
16.8
Why does dotted decimal notation work well with IP addresses?
(a)IP uses octet boundaries to seperate an address into a prefix and suffix
 using octet boundries. Dotted decimal notation uses octets to seperate boundries too.
(b)Because IP implements dotted decimal notation as part of it's protocol specification.
(c)It is easier for IP to use dotted decimal notation rather than binary to
 represent an address.
(d)IP likes it better than representing it as a binary number.
16.8
IP divides host addresses into three primary classes: class A, B, C, D, E. 
The following are some IP addresses which is represented with dotted decimal
 notation and their corresponding address classes. Which one is right:
(a)IP address 128.10.2.3(class B)
(b)IP address 10.2.0.37(class C)
(c)IP address 128.128.255.0(class C)
(d)IP address 192.5.48.3(class A)
16.8
Because dotted decimal notation does not make individual bits of an address visible, 
the class of an address must be recognized from the ____ value of the _______ octet.
decimal, first
hexidecimal, second
binary, first
binary, second
16.9
What is the maximum number of networks that class A can contain?
128
16384
2048
10101010
16.9
The number of bits in a class A SUFFIX is:
24
32
16
8
16.10
Which Statement is true?
Throughout an internet each network prefix must be unique.
You probably have the same IP address as your neighbor.
both are true.
neither are true.
16.10
To ensure that network prefix is unique throughout the entire internet,which of the
 following guarantees such kind of thing?
(a)ISP coordinating with Internet Assigned Number Authority.
(b)ISP itself.
(c)Any organization itself.
(d)None of above
16.10
Throughout an internet, each network prefix must be:
the same
3 characters long
in english
unique
16.11
The IP address assigned to a host always begins with the prefix that has been 
assigned to the host's ________ ?
physical network
router network
internal network
Burger King network
16.11
If the organization expects one small network, which class prefix will the 
administrator  might choose?
class C prefix
class A prefix
class B prefix
class D prefix
16.11
If an organization requires 1 small size network, 2 medium size networks and 3 large
 size networks, the Administrator chooses which classes of networks:
1 Class A Network, 2 Class B Networks, 3 Class C Networks
1 Class C Network, 2 Class B Networks, 3 Class A Networks
1 Class B Network, 2 Class A Networks, 3 Class B Networks
1 Class A Network, 2 Class E Networks, 3 Class C Networks
16.11
If an organization requires 1 small size network, 2 medium size networks and 3 large
 size networks, the Administrator chooses which classes of networks:
1 Class A Network, 2 Class B Networks, 3 Class C Networks
1 Class C Network, 2 Class B Networks, 3 Class A Networks
1 Class B Network, 2 Class A Networks, 3 Class B Networks
1 Class A Network, 2 Class E Networks, 3 Class C Networks
16.12
Which of the following are special reserved IP Adresses for IPv4?
Network, Loopback, Directed Broadcast
Limited Broadcast, Direct Broadcast, Unlimited Broadcast
Loopback, This computer, Anycast
Anycast, Broadcast, Network
16.12
In order to identify a network, which special IP address forms should be chosen:
prefix: network surfix: all-0s
prefix: all-0s surfix: all-0s
prefix: network surfix: all-1s
prefix: all-1s surfix: all-1s
16.12
The special address defined by IP 128.211.0.0, where 128.211 is the prefix, represents:
a network address
a direct broadcast address
a limited broadcast address
an anycast address
16.12.1
Which address denotes the network that has been assigned the class B prefix 128.211.
128.211.0.0
128.11.1.3
128.21.34.3
128.231.23.2
16.12.1
Which address denotes the network that has been assigned the class B prefix 128.211.
128.211.0.0
128.11.1.3
128.21.34.3
128.231.23.2
16.12.1
2. The network address refers to:
(a) the network itself.
(b) the host computers attached to that network
(c) the destination address.
(d) the source address
16.12.1
Why should the network address never appear as the destination address in a packet?
(a)Because the network address refers to the network itself and not the computers
 attached to it.
(b)It's just a convention, it actually doesn't matter if it is the destination address.
(c)Because a network address is always zero.
(d)Because the same suffix can appear on more than one network.
16.12.2
The directed broadcast address for a network is formed by adding a suffix that
 conisists of all ----- bits to the network prefix?
1
0
2
3
16.12.2
Who receives the packet when it is sent to a direct broadcast address?
All host on that network address
Administrator
One of the host
The default user
16.12.2
16.12.2 The directed broadcast address for a network is formed by adding a suffix
 that consists of
all 1's.
all 0's.
a certain pattern of 0's and 1's depending on the address class.
a hexidecimal value.
16.12.3
In Limited Broadcast, (pg244-244)
IP reserves the address consisting of all 1 bits to refer to Limited Broadcast.
an administrator must assign special addresses to specific computers.
the network is usually assigned a Class A address.
only Class C addresses can be used.
16.12.3
Which of the following is correct?
IP reserves the address consisting of all 1 bits to refer to limited broadcast.
The term limited broadcast refers to a broadcast to a remote physical network.
IP reserves the address consisting of all 0 bits to refer to limited broadcast.
Limited broadcast can be used after system startup.
16.12.3
Which of the following is correct?
IP reserves the address consisting of all 1 bits to refer to limited broadcast.
The term limited broadcast refers to a broadcast to a remote physical network.
IP reserves the address consisting of all 0 bits to refer to limited broadcast.
Limited broadcast can be used after system startup.
16.12.3
Limited broadcast refers to a broadcast on a _______.
physical network
virtual network
simple network
bun
16.12.4
IP reserves the address consisting of __________ to mean 'this computer'.
all zeros
all ones
zeros followed by an equal number of ones
either all zeros or all ones depending on the computer
16.12.4
###################################
IP reserves the address that consists of all zeroes to mean this computer.
IP reserves the address that consists of all ones to mean this computer.
IP reserves the address that consists of half zeroes and half ones to mean this computer.
IP cannot handle it at all.
16.12.4
A computer uses protocals upon boot up to obtain its IP address automaticaly, but can't 
supply a correct IP source address when using this protocal as a result. What does IP do
 to handle such cases?
It reserves the addresses that consist of all zeroes to meanThis computer"."
It reserves addresses that consist of all ones to mean 'Computer upon boot up'
It doesn't bother sending a source address until a unique IP address is obtained.
It sends the source address once one has been assigned to it by this protocal.
16.12.5
IP reserves the class ____ network prefix ____ for use with loopback.
A, 127
A, 100
B,128
E,255
16.12.5
The most popular loopback address is:
127.0.0.1
255.255.255.0
127.0.0.255
24.38.52.117
16.13
Which of the following is not a special IP address in IPv4?
Anycast
Direct brodcast
Loop back
Limited broadcasting
16.13
What does all-0&#8217;s special IP address used for?
&#61623; During bootstrap
&#61623; Boardcast on local net
&#61623; Testing
&#61623; A host complete the start up procedure
16.13
What does all-0's special IP address used for?
 During bootstrap
 Boardcast on local net
 Testing
 A host complete the start up procedure
16.13
An Internet Address is:
a unique 32 bit number assigned to a host
specified by the Internet Protocol Stack
abbreviated as IP Address
all of the above
16.13
An Internet Address is:
a unique 32 bit number assigned to a host
specified by the Internet Protocol Stack
abbreviated as IP Address
all of the above
16.14
A computer with multiple network connections must be:
assigned one IP address for each connection.
one universal IP address.
a computer can only have 1 network connection!.
IPs can't be assigned because it is hardware specific.
16.14
How does the Berkeley broadcast implement?
Uses a host suffix that contained all zeroes.
Uses a host suffix that contained all ones.
Uses a host prefix and suffix that contained all ones.
Uses a host prefix and suffix that contained all zeroes.
16.14
The address form known as 'Berkley Broadcast' uses a host suffix consisting of only all
 zeroes to represent:
A directed broadcast address
A limited broadcast address
A network address
A loopback address
16.15
An IP address identifies
the connection between a computer and a network
a specific computer
the number of connections that a computer has to a network
none of the above
16.15
Each router is assigned two or more IP addresses because of the following reason. EXCEPT:
The more IP addresses a router has, the faster it can send out the data
A router can connects multiple physical networks
Each IP address contains a prefix for a specific network
A computer with multiple network connections must have one IP address for each connection.
16.16
A host computer that connects to multiple networks is called:
multi-homed
server
hub
LAN
16.16
Which of the following is an advantage to a host that is multi-homed?
B , C and D are correct
If one connection fails, the host can still reach the Internet
An Internet connection can be de-multiplexed at such a host, therefore allowing greater
 bandwidth
In the event that a connection becomes congested there is a secondary that can be used
16.16
Can a host have multiple network connections?
Yes. A host computer that connects to multiple networks is called multi-homed.
Yes. A host computer that connects to multiple networks is called multi-hosted.
Yes. A host computer that connects to multiple networks is called multi-casted.
None the above.
17.2
The prorcol address is
Used by software to give the illusion of a single large network.
Used by hardware to give the illusion of a single large network.
Used by hardware on large networks with a single phisical transfer medium.
Used by software to communicate with other computers on a single phisical transfer medium.
17.2
Which address is used for next-hop address when forwarding packets?
IP address
hardware address
your neighbour's home address
next-hop address is not used when forwarding packets
17.2
Protocol addresses are:
Abstractions
Distractions
Unique to an application
Unique to a hotmail account
17.3
Which of the following is NOT true about address resolution:
A computer can resolve the address of any computer on any network.
Address resolution is local to a network.
It is the translation from a computer's protocol address to an equivalent hardware address.
Each computer that handles a packet resolves a next-hop address before sending.
17.3
Translation from a computer's protocol address to an equivalent hardware address is 
known as:
Address resolution.
Computer translation.
Proto-to-hard switch.
Packet delivery.
17.3
We said the address resolution is
always restricted to a single network.
always restricted to a pair of networks.
sometimes restricted to a single network.
sometimes restricted to a pair of networks.
17.4
Which of the following is NOT a type of address resolution algorithm?
Open-form computation
Table lookup
Closed-form computation
Message exchange
17.4
Which one of the following is not a type of Address Resolution Algorithm:
Checksum Computation
Table Lookup
Closed-Form Computation
Message Exchange
17.4
section 17.4 Which the following basic categories is address resolution algorithms ?
Table lookup, Closed-form computation, Message exchange.
Table lookup, Closed-form computation.
Table lookdown, Closed-form computation, Message exchange.
Table lookup, Open-form computation, Message exchange.
17.5
In the address resolution with table lookup, search efficiency for large networks 
can be  achieved using:
hashing or direct addressing.
sequential search
a separate address binding table for each network.
non of the above.
17.5
If Address Resolution with Table Lookup is used, which of the following is required?
The protocol and hardware addresses.
The network and protocol addresses.
The network, protocol, and hardware addresses.
The router, protocol, and hardware addresses.
17.6
some network technologies use configurable addresses and they used closed form 
computation for address resolution, which one of the following is used in the computation:
hardware_Address = ip_address & 0xff
hardware_Address = ip_address(1) + ip_address(2)
hardware_Address = ip_address || fffff
ip_address & 0xff = hardware_Address
17.6
When a computer connects to a network that uses configurable addressing, the local
network administrator must choose a hardware address as well as an IP address. Why 
can this be advantagious?
The two values can be chosen to make address resolution trivial.
It gives the network administrator greater control of the network.
It gives someone a job.
It decreases the chances of a conflicting address.
17.7
With regards to address resolution with message exchange(Dynamic message exchange)
 which feature is NOT true
Produces resolution with minimum delay
Protocol address independent of hardware address
Adds traffic to network
Implementation is more difficult
17.7
Which of the following statements is NOT true about address resolution.
Address resolution is defined as making sure your street number is illuminated at night.
Address resolution is easier to configure, manage and control.
Address resolution servers can be expensive.
Address resolution servers can become a bottleneck on a large, busy network.
17.7
How do networks deal with address resolution requests?
(a)Both of these are possible designs for handling adress resolution requests with unique 
advantages and disadvantages.
(b)Each computer on the network agrees to answer resolution requests for its own address.
(c)The network includes one or more servers that are assigned the task of answering
 address resolution requests.
(d)Neither of these are reasonable designs for handling address resolution requests.
17.8
What does TCP/IP use To guarantee that all computers agree on the exact format and 
meaning of messages used to resolve address?
Address Resolution Protocol
Broadcast Request/Receive Messaging
Closed-form computation
Dynamic Message Exchange
17.8
To guarantee that all computers agree on the exact format, the TCP/IP protocol suite 
includes:
None of the above
Address Response Protocol (ARP)
Agreed Format Protocol (AFP)
Computer Agreement Protocol (CAP)
17.8
To guarantee that all computers agree on the exact format, the TCP/IP protocol suite
 includes
None of the above
Address Response Protocol(ARP)
Agreed Format Protocol(AFP)
Computer Agreement Protocol(CAP)
17.9
Which of the following is FALSE about ARP?
Responses to an ARP message are brodcast.
A resonse is sent only to the computer that first issued the message.
ARP messages must be placed in a hardware frame and brodcast to all machines on the network.
ARP stands for 'Address Resolution Protocol.'
17.9
The ARP protocol specifies that ARP messages should be sent across the network:
in a hardware frame and broadcast to all computers
in a hardware frame and unicast to a single computer
outside a hardware frame and broadcast to all computers
outside a hardware frame and unicast to a single computer
17.9
The seamless integration of layers 1 and 2 of the ISO model as represented by the 
internet is known as
a virtual network.
an intranet.
a VPN.
DARPA.
17.10
The format for an ARP message when used to bind IP addresses to Ethernet hardware addresses: when ARP is used with IP, the field PROTOCOL ADDRESS TYPE contains:
0x0800
0x0806
0x0700
0x0805
17.10
Although the ARP messsage format is sufficiently general to allow arbitrary protocols 
and hardware addresses, ARP is almost always used to bind a:
32-bit IP address to a 48-bit Ethernet address.
48-bit IP address to a 32-bit Ethernet address.
32-bit IP address to a 32-bit Ethernet address.
48-bit IP address to a 48-bit Ethernet address.
17.10
The ARP message format is almost always used to bind:
an IP address to an Ethernet address
an IP address to a Token Ring
a Hardware address to a Ethernet address
an IPv6 address to an IPv4 address
17.11
An ARP message is transported
in a frame.
in a tube.
using the Address Encapsulation Protocol.
using closed form computation.
17.11
Placing a message inside a frame is called?
encapsulation
byte stuffing
directed broadcast
fragmentation
17.11
When one computer sends an ARP message to another, the message travels inside a 
hardware frame. This is known as?
Encapsulation
IP datagram
Layering
Caching
17.12
How does a computer know whether an incoming frame contains an ARP message?
The type field in the frame header specifies that the frame contains an ARP message.
The operation field specifies that the frame contains an ARP
The target specifies that the frame contains an ARP
It doesn't know
17.12
How can an ARP message be identified on Ethernet frame?
Frame type is set to 0X806.
It cannot identify what is in the data frame.
Checks the destination address.
Frame type is set to 666.
17.13
What do Caching ARP Responses do?
Check if the destination IP address exist in the cache if it does exist no request 
messages is needed to send else send request messages.
Send a request message everytime whenever delivery the packet.
It uses cache memory so that message can delivery faster.
Allow packages to send without any request.
17.13
When adding a new binding to a FULL ARP cache table, space is created in the table by
removing the oldest binding.
removing the least used binding
expanding the table size by 1 slot.
expanding the table size by 10 slots.
17.13
To reduce network traffic,ARP software extracts and saves the the information from a
 response so it can be used again,the software places the information ..
in a small table in memory
in permanent storage
in bindings for ever
on a special disk
17.14
A computer receives two ARP responses from a single request from two different computers
 c1 and c2 respectively. The computer receives the response from c1 first. After both
 responses are received, which computer will the next packet be sent to?
c2
both
c1
neither
17.14
Storing the bindings in ARP replies is used:
to prevent future ARP requests
because the binding never changes
to flag the message as important
jello is blue
17.14
When does a computer sends an ARP request for a given target?
When it has a packet to deliver to that target
When TIME TO LIVE is exceeded
When it wants to receive a packet from target
When it does not have the physical address of target
17.15
Address resolution software:
hides the details of physical addressing, allowing software in higher layers to use 
protocol addressing.
hides the details of protocol software, allowing for fast connections between multiple 
computers.
hides the details of the network interface layer, allowing software to perform it's own 
operations.
hides the details of the type of hardware present in the network interface layer.
17.15
In the layeing and address resolution, what is the first layer from the Buttum
address resolution device driver
higher layers of protocol software
applications
physical
18.2
TCP/IP includes protocols for:
Both connectionless and connection-oriented services.
Connectionless service.
Connection-oriented service.
None of the Above.
18.2
TCP/IP designers choose to include protocols for
Both connectionless and connection-oriented services.
Connectionless services.
Connection-oriented services.
None of the above.
18.2
The fundemental delivery service chosen by TCP/IP designers was?
connectionless and a connection oriented service that uses the underlying connectionless
 service.
connection oriented service that can be utilized by a connectionless system.
connectionless oriented service only
connection oriented service only
18.3
What is heterogenity?
Different file formats used on different sides of a router
Different file formats used on different sides of a network
The use of routers to pass Virtual packets
Your sexual orientation
18.3
a packet travels accross the internet as follows...
a router forwards each packet from one network to another
via a LAN
Two packets are always sent together, and the first leads the second
the packet follows a homing signal from the requesting computer
18.3
Conventional hardware frame formats cannot be used for internet packets because:
A router can connect heterogenous networks.
A router can connect homogenous networks.
Connectionless internet service is not an extension of packet switching.
The router can transfer a copy of a frame from one type of network to another.
18.4
In most datagrams, the header
is much smaller than the data area.
is much larger than the data area.
is the same size as the data area.
does not exist.
18.4
The amount of data in a datagram (not including the header) is:
As little as a single octet of data or at most 64K octets.
Always a single octet.
Always 64K octets.
Always 32-bits
18.4
what type is the source address and destination address?
IP address
hardware address
physical address
network address
18.5
Because each destination in a routing table corresponds to a network, so how is the 
number of entries in a routing table compares to the number of networks in an internet
proportional
greater than
less than
equal to
18.5
Which method does an IP router use to store information to determine the next hop to 
which a datagram should be sent?
It uses a routing table.
It was decided that the best way would be to use a connected graph to represent the 
adjacent networks.
By the mask.
Using best effort delivery.
18.5
An IP router keeps information in a routing table. Each destination listed in a
 routing is ________ , not ________ .
a network, an individual host
an individual host, a network
an individual host, a router
a router, a network
18.5
In addition to ______ that is used to detect transmission errors, IP implementations
 include ______ known as Internet Control Message Protocol(ICMP).
a header checksum, an error reporting system
IPv6, a security system
CRC, a security system
CRC, a traceroute system
18.6
Which of the following is not true about IP routing tables?
An IP address is used when the 'Next Hop' field denotes a computer.
The 'Destination' field in each entry contains the network prefix of the destination
 network.
The 'address mask' specifies which bits of the destination correspond to the network 
prefix.
The interfaces on the routers does not have to be assigned the respective host suffexes 
of the neighbouring networks.
18.6
An IP address is used when the Next Hop field denotes a ______ ?
router
switch
computer
ping pong table
18.6
Which of the following statements about IP address and routing table entry is not correct:
The Destination field in each entry is the address of an individual host.
The Destination field in each entry contains the network prefix of the destination network.
Each entry contains an address Mask that specifies which bits of the destination
 correspond to the network prefix.
An IP address is used when the Next Hop field denotes a router.
18.7
The _____ field in a routing table entry is used to extract the network part of an 
address during lookup.
Mask
Source
Destination
Next Hop
18.7
Routing and Forwarding are best described as...
The Process of using a routing table to select a next hop for a given datagram
the sorting and forwarding of mail
some kind of dance
The act of passing on data
18.8
The address of the next hop, if there is one, is stored in the IP header:
Never
In the destination field
In the IP Options field
In the Service type Field
18.8
The destination address in a datagram header always refers to the ultimate _______ ?
destination
sender
router
whopper combo
18.8
The destination address in a datagram header always refers to the ___________.
ultimate destination
next hop
next router
nothing
18.9
Which of the following does IP not guarantee that it will handle the problems of.
a:b,c,d
b:Datagram Duplication
c:Corruption of data
d:Datagram loss
18.9
Although IP makes a best-effort attempt to deliver each datagram, IP does not guarentee
 that it will handle the datagram problems of:
duplication, delay or out-of-order, data corruption, loss
only duplication and data corruption
only duplication and datagram loss
none of the above
18.9
Which protocal uses the term best-effort to describe the service it offers?
IP
TCP
MSTP
FTP
18.10
For the IP Datagram Header Format,how many bits are used for TOTAL LENGTH?
16-bits.
4-bits.
8-bits.
32-bits.
18.10
For the IP Datagram Header Format,how many bits are used for TOTAL LENGTH?
16-bits.
4-bits.
8-bits.
32-bits.
18.10
In an IP datagram header, how many bits are in the integer for the TOTAL LENGTH field.
16
12
8
4
18.10
In an IP datagram header, how many bits are in the integer for the TOTAL LENGTH field.
16
12
8
4
18.10
In which field of IP datagram header, the value specifies whether the sender prefers 
the datagram to travel over a route with minimal delay or a route with maximal thoughput:
SERVICE TYPE
TYPE
FLAGS
IDENTIFICATION
19.2
Which of the following statements is true
network hardware does not understand datagram format
network hardware does understand datagram format
network hardware does not understand datagram format provided that the hardware does
 not reside on a WAN.
One unique frame format is defined for all network technologies
19.2
Network hardware does not understand datagram format or internet addressing, true or false?
true
false
maby
I don't have a clue
19.2
3. When a host or router handles a datagram, IP software FIRST selects:
(a) the next hop to which the datagram should be sent.
(b) the physical network to which the datagram should be sent.
(c) the Internet address to which the datagram should be sent .
(d) the destination address to which the datagram should be sent.
19.3
What is encapsulation?
A technique used to put an IP datagram into a frame so that it can be passed through 
a network.
A technique used to establish the next hop for a packet.
A technique to convert from one protocol to another.
A technique used by routers to decode and rebuild data.
19.3
Encapsulation is: (pg278)
When an entire IP datagram is placed in the data area of a frame.
When the HEADER CHECKSUM is placed in the IP datagram.
How datagram duplication is handled.
How datagram loss is handled.
19.3
Why is encapsulation used?
To transmit datagrams accross a network that does not know the format
To hide the data in the datagram
To hack into a network
To send e-mail
19.4
19.4 When a datagram is transmitted through the network and arrives at its next hop,
the receiver extracts the datagram from the incoming frame, encapsulates it in an 
outgoing frame, sending it to its next hop.
the receiver encapsulates the incoming frame with an outgoing frame, sending it to 
its next hop.
the receiver discards the frame if it doesn't recognize the IP address.
none of the above.
19.4
When a datagram arrives in a network frame, the receiver does which of the following?
extracts the datagram from the frame data area and discards the frame header.
extracts the datagram from the frame data area as well as the frame header.
stores the network frame in memory until needed
nothing the receiver doesn't accept network frames
19.4
Which of the following is correct?
After the sender selects a next hop, the sender encapsulates the datagram in a frame 
and transmits the result across the physical network to the next hop.
After the sender selects a next hop, the sender will directly send the datagram to the
 next hop.
Frame headers will accumulate during a trip through the internet.
When the datagram reaches its final destination, the size of datagram will larger than
 the size of the original datagram.
19.4
Which of the following is correct?
After the sender selects a next hop, the sender encapsulates the datagram in a 
frame and transmits the result across the physical network to the next hop.
After the sender selects a next hop, the sender will directly send the datagram to
 the next hop.
Frame headers will accumulate during a trip through the internet.
When the datagram reaches its final destination, the size of datagram will larger
 than the size of the original datagram.
19.5
A datagram cannot be _____ the MTU of a network over which it is sent.
larger than
smaller than
half the size of
the same as
19.5
After an IP datagram is goes through fragmentation, each fragment carries some data
 from the original datagram, and has an IP header similar to the original datagram. 
Which fields in the IP header are updated?
FLAGS, FRAGMENT OFFSET
FRAGMENT OFFSET
FRAGMENT OFFSET, FLAGS, TOTAL LENGTH
FRAGMENT OFFSET, TYPE, TOTAL LENGTH
19.5
Which field in the header specifies where in the original datagram does the fragment belong?
FRAGMENT OFFSET
FLAG
IDENTIFICATION
SERVICE TYPE
19.6
What are 2 advantages of requiring the final destination to reassemble the fragments of 
a datagram?
It reduces the amount of state information in the routers and it allows the routes to
 change dramatically.
It reduces the amount of state information in the routers and it creates less traffic 
over the internet.
It increases the rate at which the datagram is sent and allows the routes to change 
dramatically.
None of the above

