CTS Questions 2003: 
There are 60 questions to be answered
in 60 minutes

1)      In a club there are certain no. of males and females. If 15 females are absent then no.    of males will be twice that of females. If 45 males are absent then female strength will be      5 times that of males. Find no. of males actually present.

2)      Three men A, B, C plays Cards. If one loses the game he have to give Rs.3. If he wins the   game he will gain Rs.6. If A has won 3 Games, B loses Rs.3, C wins Rs.12.What is the total no.   of games played?

3)      A can swim & cross 50m(the length of swimming pool) in 2 min. B can swim & cross 50m in    2min 15sec. Every time when they meet a bell gong is struck. For 2000m how many bell sounds     might be produced?

4)      When I was married 10 years ago my wife is the 6th member of the family. Today my father   died and a baby born to me. The average age of my family during my marriage is same as today.    What is the age of Father when he died?
  ans:70.

5)      There are 9 balls of equal size and same weight(they look similar) except 1. How may       weights required to find the dissimilar ball using a weighing balance?

6)      Product of Prime no. between 1 to 20?

7)      Find out the total numbers between 1 to 999 that are neither divisible by 8 nor by 12?

8)      Find out the distinct numbers that can be formed by 2, 3, 7, 6(don't now exactly) that     should be divided by 4?

9)      Two trains at speed 60 km/hr comes in the opposite direction. At a particular time the   distance between the two trains is 18km. A shuttle flies between the trains at the speed of 80   km/hr. At the time the two trains crashes what is the distance traveled by shuttle?

10)      There are n urns and m balls. If we put 3 balls in each urn 3 balls will be excess. If   we put 4 balls in each urn 1 urn will be excess. Find no. of Urns (or) Balls? 

11)        Find the area not occupied by circles:
  Given length =y breadth =x 
  Answer:3x2(1-pie/4)
 
12)      A man gets x/y of Rs.10 and y/x of Rs.10. He
  returns Rs.20. The Answer choices are
  a) He may not lose
  b) He may lose
  c) He always loses
  d) Cannot be Determined

13)      Three men A,B,C can complete a work separately in some specified days(may be6,7,8).
  If they do the work together by alternate days. Then how many days need to complete the work?

14)	   Four Members A,B,C,D are playing a game. A person losing a game should double the     amount of others. B,C,D are losing  in order after three games. The amount after 3 games are     A&B having 40,D is having 16&C 80.
  Each questions carry one mark:
  a) who started with small amount of money?
  Ans)A

15)    who started with greatest amount of money?
  Ans)B

16)    what amount did B have?
  Ans)93
  Hint: I solved and found the answers to be A->5,B->93

17)    There are some houses in a street back to back. And they that house behind 10 was 23.
  How many houses in the street?
  Ans)32

18)    There are 1997 doors in a auditorium and as many as people as the no of doors open enter   the auditorium. A door was closed and as many as people as no of doors open leave the     auditorium. The process was repeated till the no of doors is equal to1.find the total no of
  peoples enter the auditorium?

19)     A batsman average was 15.at last innings he took 23 runs then his average became 16. How   much run he should take to make his average 18?

20)     Find the number WXYZ divisible by 36?
  i)let the digits be5,4,3,6 -not in that order
  ii)sum of last two digits is 9
  iii) sum of middle two digits is 7
  ->if one is sufficient then ans as A || if two is sufficient then ans as B || if all are     necessary  then ans as C || if nothing is needed then ans as D

21)	  X and Y live in a North-South parallel street. X travels 10 km towards North to reach   the east-west street. Y travels 6 km towards south to reach the east -west street . X travels   now 4km towards east and y travels 8km towards west and they met each other. What is the   distance between x and y?

22)	  The houses are numbered 1,2,3,… and reach the end of the street and backtracks toward s   the starting point. The house numbered 10 is opposite to 23. There are even no of houses. Find   the total no of houses.

23)	  A seller has a set of apples out of which he sells one half of it and half an apple to   his first customer.then he sells half of the remaining apples and a half apple to his second     customer. Then he sells half of the remaining apple and ½ apple to his third customer and so     on. This repeats upto 7th customer and no more  apples are remaining. Find the total no of     apples he had.

24)	  A hollow cube of size 5cm is taken, with the thickness of 1cm. It is made of smaller     cubes of size 1cm . If the outer surface of the cube is painted how many faces of the smaller    cubes remain unpainted?

25)	  If a 36 cm thread is used to wrap a book, lengthwise twice and breadthwise once, what    is the size of the book?

26)       The various degrees of the vertices are marked in the dig. Find y.

27)	  If 4 circles of equal radius are drawn with vertices of a square as the centre, the     side of the square being 7 cm, find the area of the circles outside the square?

28)	  A bus has 40 seats and the passengers agree to share the total bus fare among         themselves equally. If the total fair is 80.67, find the total no of  the seats unoccupied.

29)	  A 4 digit no may consist of the digits 6,2,7,5 where none of the nos are repeated. Find   the possible no of combinations divisible by 36?

30)	  If u r traveling from Mumbai to banglore and return back. To find the speed of the car   which of the following r needed.
  a)the distance between them. 
  b)time taken
  c)avg speed towards Mumbai and the avg speed towards
    banglore.      
  Choices:
  1)a only.   2)a and b 3) a,b,c  4)b only 5) c only (ans not in order)

31)       (Diagram drawn approximate not to scale.)
  If all the blocks are squares and the complete fig. is also a square and the area of the a is 1   cm2,b=81 cm2, what is the area of i?

32)	  A secret can be told only 2 persons in 5 minutes. The same person tells to 2 more     persons and so on. How long will take to tell it to 768 persons ?
  a)47.5 min  b)50 min   c) 500 min.           
  Ans: 47.5 min

33)	  Three birds cross a point in a same st. line and of that 2 fly in opposite directions.   If a triangle is formed with the position of the birds what kind of the triangle will be     formed?
  a)isosceles  b)right angle    c)equilateral  d)right angle and isosceles.

34) 	 When the angle a, b, c, d are given find x.

35) 	 One question is given for explaining the working of cornea (in eyes) & the window 
  ans: drawing analogy

36) 	  m<n, & x<y which of the following is definitely false?
  a)m-n < x-y                                      
  b)m+n < x+y
  c)m-n > x-y
  d)m+n > x+y

37)	  Four circles are drawn from the corners of a square of area 49 cm2 . Find the area of 4   circles outside the square
  (they didn't mention that circles have radius=1/2 side of a square)
  ans: intermediate

38)	  In a pond ecosystem,large fishes and small fishes will be there.If we want to remove     small amount of pollutants, small fishes are to be employed. In a food-chain food passes     through a number of mouths and en route the mouth of the superfeeder-the eagle. The size of the   ecosystem is determined by its population. But this has been proved false. What can you infer    from above?
  (4 choices)

39)	  In Bangalore,during income tax deduction for a single person,the percentage increased    by 3% and for middle house-holders, it decreased by 3%.What can you infer?

40)	  In China,Mao-Tse -Tung was responsible for organizing its people and taking China into   success path. It evolved into a great economic power by improved industrial and economical     statistics. China prospered in those years, but_________________
  Which of the following best completes the sentence?
  (4 choices)

41)	  A ridge formed over Pacific Ocean was because of the intersection of two volcanoes. But   in history it was written that it was not due to those volcanoes. It proves a contradictory to   form the view that history will be proved wrong in the future.
  Inference?

42)	  In a poultry form because of cloning,a large breed of hens were produced. This     increased the production but the maintenance was very difficult because of the large number.     This does not mean that cloning is a disaster in the scientific world but it is a tool which in   some ways is constructive but in other ways it is destructive. Inference?

