 COMPARISION OF KOMATSU AND ALU 411 engines
 ===========================================

 SPECIFICATION                     KOMATSU              ALU 411
 -------------                     -------              -------

 Power at 1750rpm                 90 metric HP          112 Metric HP

 Torque at 1750rpm                42Kg mts              43 Kg-mts

 No. of cylinders                     4                     6


 ALU 411 TURBO-CHARGED DIESEL ENGINE TECHNICAL DATA
 --------------------------------------------------

 TYPE :    Direct Injection Turbo Charged 4 Stroke SixCylinder in line
           water cooled Diesel engine
 Bore                 : 107 mm
 Stroke               : 120 mm
 Cubic Capacity       : 6.54 lts
 Compression ratio    : 16 to 1
 Firing Order         : 1-5-3-6-2-4
 Rotation             : Anticlockwise when viewed from the flywheel end.
 Full Load Speed range: 1000 to 2600 rev/min
 Idling Speed         : 550 rev/min
 Sump Oil capacity    : 13.2 lit
 Dry Weight of engine : 630 kg

 Curves represent performance of the engine with fuel pump,
 water pump and lubricating oil pump. It does not include
 alternator, cooling fan or any other optional equipment.

MAXIMUM RATING    : This is for short duration application - 155 metric
                    HP @ 2600 rpm.
CONTINUOUS RATING : This is the rating, the engine is capable of
developing continuously under standard conditions.  Provided the
engine is overhaul and maintained in good operating condition - 132
metric HP @2200 rpm.
    The engine is capable of providing an output of 10% in excess of
    this rating at the same speed for one hour during any period for
    12 hours  continuous running.
MAJOR COMPONENTS INVOLVED IN REPOWERING ARRANGEMENTS
----------------------------------------------------

FRONT PORTION:

1.  Drive gear for front power take-off, fitted on crant shaft front
    end nose with key.
2.  Crankshaft extension piece screwed on for fitment of damper
3.  New cast Iron timing case to house front power take off drive and
    accomidate clutch withdrawl hydraulic pump.
4.  Drive adaptor for clutch withdrawal hydraulic pump bolted on FIP
    drive gear inside timing  case.
5.  Power take-off gear inside timing case
6.  Power take-off shaft.
7.  Power take-off shaft bearing.
8.  For pulley hub for remote mounted fan.
9.  Fan hub shaft.
10. Fan pully shaft bearing.
11. Fan hub mounting bracket
12. Spacer for double grove pulley in water pump.
13. Fan drive belt.
14. New bracket for alternator.
15. Sump welded with flanged end portion to suit timing case.

REAR SIDE

16. Fly wheel with internal spur gear teeth on the periphery.
17. Double lipped crank shaft rear oil seal.
18. New crank shaft adaptor with increased width to suit double lipped
    oil seal.
19. Fly wheel housing with modified mounting pad arrangements SAE 1 type.

DESCRIPTION  OF PROTOTYPE ENGINE:

     The AshokLeyland ALU 411 engine is a turbocharged vertically
inline  six cylinder direct injection diesel engine.  BEML make D
50 A BullDozer  have hydraulically operated blade  and  wet  type
clutch.  For  mounting main hydraulic pump  (for blade operation)
and clutch with drawal pump, new castiron timing  case  is  made.
Drive gear for front power take off is fitted on Crankshaft front
end nose with keys.  Power take-off gear  is  fitted  inside  the
timing  case  Main  hydraulic  pump  is driven by power  take-off
shaft.  Clutch withdrawal hydraulic pump is driven with the  help
of  splined  drive  a  daptor bolted on Fuel Injection Pump drive
gear inside timing case.  Crankshaft extension piece  is  screwed
on for fitment of damper.
     Sump is welded with flanged end portion to suit bottom  por-
tion  of the timing case.  To keep the fan in Radiator centre its
axis is shifted above the water  pump  axis.  For  that  Fan  hub
mounting bracket, Fan pulley hub and fan hub shaft is neatlymade.
Also fan axis is shifted to towards  radiator,  to  achieve  this
Aluminium  Spacer is fitted inside double groove pulley. When wa-
ter pump rotates it drives the double  groove   pulley  and  this
pulley  rotates  the  fan fitted to hub with the help of A 26 Fan
belt.
     The centre axis of outer groove in double groove pulley lies
in  the  plane  of  damper pulley.  Alternative pulley is shifted
forward with the help of new bracket to keep it in the  plane  of
damper  pully  and  water  pump  pulley.   Now crankshaft pulley,
Alternator pulley and water pump pulley rotates in the same plane
with the help of fan belt.  For driving wet clutch a new flywheel
with internal spur gear teeth on the periphery is made.  Flywheel
housing with modified mounting pad arangement is made for housing
newly made flywheel and suit BEML clutch housing.  Double  lipped
crankshaft rear oil seal is fitted in flywheeel having to control
Engine oil on one side and hydraulic oil in the another side.  To
suit  double  lipped  oil  seal a new crankshaft adaptor with in-
creased width is made.  Front flexible mounting pads  are  fitted
to timing back plates.

     Flatness and coplaning of timing backplate and  Sump  flange
face  is  cheked with the help of straight  edge.  The runout and
face out of the crankshaft extension and  crankshaft  adaptor  is
with in 25 microns.

ADVANTAGES OF ALU 411 ENGINE OVER KOMATSU/  CUMMINS ENGINEA:

1.  Spares are  easily  available  in  market.
2.  Maintenance repair and spare parts cost are less.

