Amazon Interview Questions 

Telephonic Interview :

1) Explain ur current company project.He wanted to know in depth, at each step he said , can we go into more details of implementation.
2) You are given a very huge string ,u have to beautify it.
   beautify means that wherever there are multiple spaces / tabs repace it with single space.Whenever there is a full stop make the next char in Upper case,
   no characters except the start of new line should be in upper case except when they are enclosed in single/double quotes,
   U have to do this all in a single traversal and const space.
3) Implement a stack so that push,pop and max would take O(1) time.(gave 4-5 approaches)
4) Given a date as 2001/10/02 its a palendrom , find the palendrom date that occured just before this.

Round 1: (focused just on coding)

1) given an array find three numbers whose product is maximum.
   
   (NOTE : looks easy but dont be fooled , there could be -ve nos too !!!!
           gave 3-4 approaches , finally gave code for the approach taking O(n) time and const space)
           
2) Given a binary tree , convert it into a doubly linked list where the elements in DLL will be in same order as inorder traversal of the tree.

3) Given a sorted array , rotate it from a given Kth index in best possible manner

4) given a sorted array that is rotated find the index from which rotation happened ( O(logn) soln )

Round 2 : (focused on coding and DS )

1) given an i/p string AAABBCCCAA , o/p = A3B2C3A2 etc ..  requirements : single traversal of string and const memory

2) give me a data structure such that if there could be values between 1-1000 then u could do the following operation in o(1) time :

   insert(x) , delete(x), giveAnyElement()
   
   where 'giveAnyElement()' will return any element present in the Data Structure.

   U can assume that memory is no issue .. just concentrate on O(1) time .
   
   (My soln : take a array[3][1000] array wherein 
    for each of the 'i' index :
    array [0][i] = a int having value 0 or 1 , where 0 means element not present , 1 = element is present
    array [1][i] = index of next value in the list
    array [2][i] = index of previous value in the list
    
    Basically u need to implement a doubly linked list on in an array and u are done :)

3) given a linkedList where each node has two pointer fields next and Random 
   where next points to the next node of linklist , while random could point to any node in LL 
   so create a copy of the linkList.
   
Round 3 : (focused on Algo,DS and coding)

1) given a NxM matrix , where each array entry is a character, write a code that will find all the words that can be formed using elements in a row, oolumn and diagonal
   
2) given a binary tree , each node apart from left and right has a tail pointer attached to it , where each tail should point to a node which would 
   come to the right of the current node , if a inorder traversal of tree is done.
   So u have to devise a O(n) algo to find out which all nodes have their tail pointers set incorrectly.
   
3) given a huge string of size n (where n = about one billion ), there are m strings each k characters long u have to find out all the occurences of these m strings
   in a single traversal of the big string.
   
   (soln started from naive string matching, then kmp,then sorting the m strings and using buckets,then using binary trees, tries, hashing etc .. )

Round 4 : (focused on my ability to Design )

1) u have a function where there is an infinite loop thats running and in that loop , getRandomNumber() is called, at any point of time i should be able to track
   the maximum, minimum, second max , sum , mean ,median etc of the nos.
   
   Also i should have the flexibility that i can add more features , ex i can also add feature to find mode of the nos found so far
   
   more importantly :a) i should have the flexibility to 'Remove' any feature as and when i want
                     b) i should be able to change the implementation of any of max, minimum methods without needing any change in my class 
                     
   
   (My soln : after a good long discussion , i used Observer Design Pattern)
   
2) what is the diff between interface and abstract classes 
   give real world examples for them.
   
3) What do u know about JDBC , what is the purpose of the driver, when u do a preparedStatement.execute() then what all happens

4) Discuss the Collections API , what all interfaces and concrete classes does it provide , if u had to create ur own Varun-collections API then what all interface
   and abstract classes would u provide
   
5) U have to design a database schema denoting the entire recruitment process , wherein storing info about candidates , interviewers , the interview results etc ..
   
Round 5 : (foucussed on Algo and how efficiently can i convert my algo to code)

1) given a NxM matrix where each row has elements in sorted order , and each column has element in sorted order , u have to find a given no in O(n) time and no extra space  
   ex : 
          1 4 10
          3 6 11
          4 7 15 
   find if 7 is present or not .           

2) Given n sorted arrays merge them into a single sorted array

3) If i give u an N then ur code should give me the no of distinct binary trees possible with N nodes 
   ex i/p = 3 o/p = 5

4) once again went back to first question , now its given that all the arrays are increasing continously 
   ie 
       1 4 10 
       12 16 20
       24 30 35  now find if a given x is present of not

       
Round 6 : (Focussed on HR,Data Strcuture , Algo)

1) whats the best thing about trilogy
2) if u have to change something in trilogy what would that be 
3) biggest challenge u faced there 
4) biggest accomplishment
5) Why amazon , there are 100 of companies out there ???

6) if u have to design the algo for searching that would be used for google , then what algo are u going to use.

7) extension of 6th : u have a huge file and u enter some key words , now u need to find the closest set of characters that enclose the entire set of keywords.
   
   ex : let String Be "ABAACAAABXYABX....BXAC.." where these A,B,C... are words (not a single characters)
        suppose user enters the keywords A,B,C then ur answer should be "BXAC"
        
Round 7 : (DS, Algo , OS, Puzzles)

1) what all have u read in OS. Can u describe features of any OS.

   (I told lot of things that i had read in Galvin , then i started to describe UNIX , giving details about inode, the kind of scheduling algo it uses, singal 
    mechanism it uses ,system call mechanism , the dual mode operations , the access control of files, talked about (datablock,superblock,inodeblock,bootblock) 
    talked about its shell and how can its functionality be easily extended etc ... )
    
2) in amazon we have millions of customers daily , if we wanted to give some gift to the customer who buy 3 or more items during the last 7 days , what DS and Algo 
   are u going to use to store and retrive this info

3) There is a file that has N lines 
   where 'i' th line says : "There are exactly i lines in the file which are false"
   
   ie .. There are exactly 1 line in the file which is false
         There are exactly 2 lines in the file which are false
         ..
         ..
         There are exactly n lines in the file which are false
         
    now u have to find out which of these n lines are true.
    
4) given a village with demons and a sleeping man, The man is always sleeping ,never wakes up. Now a demon can eat the sleeping man , but after that
   he will fall asleep , any demon can eat another sleeping demon.
   
   If demons are very smart and would always choose to stay alive than to eat the man and risk their lives.
   
   so if initially there are 65 demons and 1 sleeping man ,, what would happen in the village ???
   
   

